"I also recollect being very much troubled with dreadful and indescribably awful dreams, and
for several months during certain parts of the year I was accustomed to rise during my sleep,
and walk about the house in a state of sleep for hours together. I say in a state of sleep:
but I cannot exactly describe the state in which I was. It was not perfect sleep, and yet I
was not properly awake. My eyes were open, and I saw, as far as I can remember, the things
around me, and 1 could hear what was said to me. But neither what I saw nor what I heard seemed
to have power to penetrate far enough into my soul to awake me properly. During those occasions,
I was frequently very unhappy, dreadfully unhappy, most horribly miserable. Sometimes I fancied
I had been doing something wrong, and my fancied offence seemed horrible beyond all expression,
and alarmed and overwhelmed me with unutterable terrors and distress. On one occasion I fancied
that both I and my father had both been doing something wrong, and this seemed most horrible
and distressing of all; and as I wandered about in my mysterious state, I howled most piteously,
and cried and wept as if my heart would break. I never recollect being roused from that dismal
state while I was walking about the house, except twice. Once when I struck my shins violently
against a large earthenware bowl and hurt myself sadly; and another was when I was attempting
to go up the chimney: I put my foot upon fire and burnt myself, and that awoke me. I suffered
in this way for several years. After I went to bed at night I soon fell asleep, and slept perhaps
an hour or nearly two. I would then begin to cry, or moan, or howl, and at times to sing.

Few persons who have not attended the "class-meetings" of the Wesleyan Methodists can form
an adequate idea of the stereotyped phrases and absurd sayings indulged in by those who "speak
their experience," etc., at those meetings. Certain sentences are learned, and uttered indiscriminately,
without reference to time, place, or other conditions. Mr. Barker, after speaking of the recklessness
of speech thus indulged in, says:--

"In many cases this false way of speaking is the result of mere thoughtlessness perhaps, or
of ignorance, joined with the notion that it is their duty to pray, or to say something in
public. The parties have no intention to deceive: but being called on to speak, or invited
to pray, they begin, and catch hold of such words as they can find, whether right or wrong,
whether true or false. And their words are oftener foolish or false, than wise or true. Their
talk is at times most foolish and ridiculous. I will give an example or two. It is customary
for people, when praying for preachers, to say, 'Lord, bless thy servants when they stand up
to declare thy word: be thou mouth matter, and wisdom to them.' This has some meaning in it
when offered in reference to a preacher, especially a preacher about to preach. In other cases
it would be most foolish and ridiculous. Yet I once heard a person in a prayer-meeting at Chester
use this same form of expression in behalf of the sick and the dying. 'O Lord,' said he, 'bless
the sick and the afflicted, and those that are in the article of death;--be thou mouth, matter,
and wisdom to them.' At another prayer-meeting at Chester, on a Friday evening, one of the
leaders gave out the following lines:--

     'Another six days' work is done;
     Another Sabbath is begun.' etc.

I once heard a woman say in class, 'I do thank God that he ever gave me a desire to see that
death that never, never dies.'"

Soon after Mr. Barker became "religious" and attended his class-meetings, he awaited the usual
"call" to preach the gospel. Accordingly, having received the "call," he became a Methodist
preacher, belonging to the Old Connexion, the New Connexion, and then advancing to Unitarianism,
ultimately arriving at the climax of Freethought, in which cause he is now so distinguished
an advocate. While a Methodist preacher, he was induced by a neighbor, an Atheist, to read
Carlile's "Republican." We can readily understand why Christians are taught not to read "Infidel"
works. The effect the "Republican" produced on Mr. Barker's mind would be augmented, did those
Christians investigate what they so often ignorantly denounce. In reference to the "Republican,"
Mr. Barker says:--

"I was very much struck in reading some portions of the work [Carlile's], and agitated and
shaken by its arguments on some points. The object of many of its articles was to prove Christianity
irrational and false. The principal doctrines which it assailed were such as the trinity--the
common notion about the fall of man, and its effects upon the human race--the Calvinistic notions
of eternal, universal, and absolute predestination, unconditional election and reprobation--the
Calvinistic notion of God's sovereignty or partiality--the utter depravity of every human being
born into the world, and yet the obligation of those utterly depraved beings to steer clear
of all evil, and to do all that is right and good, on pain of eternal damnation. The doctrine
of satisfaction to justice, was also assailed, and the doctrine of the immortality of the human
soul, and the notion that because it is immaterial, it must, as a consequence, be immortal....
The consequence was, that my mind was thrown into a state of doubt and suspense. I cannot say
that I doubted the truth of the Christian religion exactly, but still I doubted the truth of
certain doctrines which I had been taught to regard as parts of that religion. I can briefly
describe the doubts I had. I neither saw clearly that those doctrines to which he objected
were no part of the Christian religion, nor could I see any way by which these doctrines could
be defended and proved to be rational and true. One thing began to seem almost certain, either
that Christianity was not true, or that those doctrines as generally laid down, were no parts
of the Christian religion. This led to investigation. I was wishful to ascertain whether those
doctrines which were assailed as irrational, were parts of Christianity or not. I began to
converse on the subject with one of my religious companions, and I began to read on the subject
as I had opportunity. My companion was rather troubled and alarmed at the doubts I expressed
with respect to the correctness of some of the common doctrines of what was considered orthodoxy;
still, what I had said had some influence on his mind, for he told me shortly after, that he
wished he had never heard my doubts, for what I had said had spoiled some of his best sermons;
he would never be able to preach them with comfort more.... During my residence in that [Newcastle]
circuit, my views on many subjects became anti-Methodistical to a very great extent indeed.
I now no longer held the prevailing views with respect to the nature of justifying faith, the
witness of the Spirit, regeneration, sanctification, and the like. In reading Wesley's works,
I was astonished at the great number of unmeaning and inconsistent passages which I met with.
In many of his views I perfectly agreed with him? but with a vast amount of what he said on
other subjects, I could not help but disagree.... About this time, finding that there was little
likelihood that I should be tolerated in the New Connexion unless I could allow my mind to
be enslaved, and feeling that I should be obliged sooner or later to break loose from Methodistical
restraint, and speak and act with freedom, I thought of visiting Mr. Turner, the Unitarian
minister of Newcastle, and seeking an interview with him. I had heard something to the effect
that Unitarians were great lovers of freedom--that they did not bind their ministers and members
by any human creeds, but left them at liberty to investigate the whole system of Christianity
thoroughly, and to judge as to what were its doctrines and duties for themselves, and to preach
what they believe to be true without restraint and persecution, and I thought if this was the
case, they must be a very happy people. But from other things which I had heard respecting
them, I was led to regard them with something of horror--to look, on them as persons who trifled
with Scripture authority, as persons who had rushed from the extremes of false orthodoxy into
the extremes of Infidelity. I was in consequence prevented from visiting Mr. Turner, and I
remained in comparative ignorance of the Unitarian body, in ignorance both of their principles
and of their character, still shut up in the dungeons of orthodox slavery."

"The dungeons of orthodox slavery" did not long contain Mr. Barker; for he afterwards became
better acquainted with the Unitarians, and formed one of their most energetic preachers. But
Unitarianism, appearing to him at first true in its doctrine and free in its advocacy, shortly
became insufficient for the cravings of his mind; and, at length, he found himself outside
all the churches. The Bible, which at one period of his life seemed to him a perfect revelation
from "God" now appeared only the production of erring and half-informed men; and having a thorough
knowledge of its contents, he resolved to employ the remainder of his life in confuting the
false notions of its "divine authority." America presenting a congenial residence, he resolved
to visit that country and purchase some land, upon which he might occupy his leisure from lecturing
and writing. Having settled in the country, he considered something should be said on the Bible.
Accordingly, in November, 1852, a Bible Convention was held at Salem, Ohio, Mr. Barker being
appointed President, he extract the following from his speech, as illustrating the uncertainty
of the Bible translations, the character of the translators, and the nature of the manuscripts
from which the translations are made:--

"We say, that the Bible bears on its very face the marks of human imperfection and error. This
is true of every Bible in existence. We will begin with the Bible in common use, and what do
we find! The title-page tells us it is a translation from the original tongues, by the special
command of one of the kings of England. Does any one pretend that the translators were infallible--men
above the possibility of error? Nothing of the kind. Even those who contend that the original
writers of the Bible were infallible, do not pretend that the king's translators were so. The
sects and priesthoods themselves show that they regard the common translation as imperfect.
They all take the liberty to alter it. They alter it in thousands and tens of thousands of
places. Nothing is more common than for theological disputants to appeal from the common translation
of the Bible to what they call the original Greek and Hebrew. Every commentator takes the same
liberty. The leaders of the sects and priesthoods of the day have testified their belief that
the Bibles in common use are imperfect and erroneous by making new translations. There is scarcely
an English sect or priesthood of any note in existence that has not produced a new translation
of the Scriptures. John Wesley translated both the Old and New Testament. His translation of
the New Testament continues to be used in the Methodist body to this day. Adam Clarke, in his
'Commentary,' translates afresh almost every important passage in the book. Many passages he
translates in such a way as to give them meanings quite contrary to the meaning given them
in the common Bible. Richard Watson, a Methodist preacher, commenced a new translation of the
Bible. Dr. Boothroyd, a Congregationalist minister of England, published another translation.
Dr. Conquest, a layman of the same denomination, published another, in which he says he made
twenty thousand emendations, or improvements. He must, therefore, have thought the common Bible
had twenty thousand imperfections or errors. Mr. Belsham, and other English Unitarians, published
a new translation of the New Testament. Mr. Wellbeloved, a Unitarian minister, published a
new translation of a great part of the Old testament, intending to publish a new translation
of the whole Bible. Even ministers of the Established Church have spoken strongly against the
common translation, and some of them have gone so far as to publish new translations of portions
of the Bible. Alexander Campbell, the founder of the denomination which bears his name, has
published a new translation of the New Testament. A Mr. Taylor published a new translation
of the New Testament from Griesbach's Greek New Testament. A Mr. Sharp published another translation
from Griesbach's Greek text. The Baptists have published a new translation of the Bible, I
am told.... We are not alone, therefore, in believing that the Bibles in common use bear marks
of human imperfection and error. The leading men in all the religious sects and priesthoods
of Great Britain and America believe the same. We add, if the translators of the Bible had
been the best and wisest men that ever lived, their work would not have been perfect. A translation
from Greek and Hebrew cannot be perfect. But the translators employed by King James were not
the best or wisest men that ever lived. They were, in some respects, exceedingly ignorant,
prejudiced, and immoral.... They were liars and false-swearers. These dignitaries of the Church
of England knew, as well as you know, that kings and queens are often vicious, profligate,
and godless. They knew that among the kings and queens of England there had been some of the
most loathsome lumps of filthiness--some of the most adulterous and lecherous sensualists--some
of the most heartless and cruel tyrants--some of the most inhuman and bloody wretches that
ever cursed the earth. They knew, too, that English kings and queens generally were under strong
temptations to be thus cruel and profligate, and that it was too much to expect any of them
to be strictly religious and virtuous. Yet they bound themselves on oath to call their kings
and queens, whatever their characters might be, most gracious and religious.' They did call
the monarch then living, 'most gracious and religious,' and they handed it down as a duty to
their successors to give the same high titles to all their future monarchs, though they should
be as filthy as that unwieldy, waddling mass of lust and rottenness, King Henry the Eighth,
or at false and treacherous as the perjured Charles the First. These translators of the Bible
also knew that many who were brought to them to be buried were godless, wicked men. They knew
that some of them were drunkards, adulterers, false-swearers. Yet they bound themselves to
call them all, as they lowered them into their graves, their 'beloved brethren,' and to declare
that they committed them to the dust 'in sure and curtain hope of a resurrection to eternal
life,' though they believed in their hearts that they would rise to eternal damnation.... They
were the hirelings of the king and government. They regarded the king as the head of the church,
and were sworn to obey him in all things. They were sworn to obey him in translating the Bible.
The king gave them the rules by which they were to be guided in the work of translation, and
they were sworn to follow these rules. These rules were intended to prevent them from putting
anything into their translation of the Bible that was at variance with the established priesthoods,
and to keep them from leaving out anything that was favorable to the Established Church and
government. And they kept to their rules, and they were influenced by their interests, their
situation, and their prejudices. It would be foolish to think otherwise. To make the Bible
agree with their creed, they put into their translation things which were not in the Greek
or Hebrew Bibles, and mistranslated vast multitudes of things which were in the Greek and Hebrew
Bibles. I will give you an instance or two. Their creed taught that God once died, or laid
down his life. There was nothing in the Greek or Hebrew Bibles to uphold this doctrine, so
in translating the Bible they so altered a passage as to make it to teach the doctrine. In
one place in the Old Testament it is said that Elhanan slew Goliath the Gittite. The translators
have altered the passage so as to make it say that it was the brother of Goliath that Elhanan
slew. See 2 Samuel xxi. 19.... Before a man can give a perfect translation of the Bible, he
must have a perfect knowledge of both the Greek and Hebrew Bible, and of the language into
which he would translate it. But no man has that knowledge. The Greek and Hebrew languages,
from which the Bible has to be translated, are dead languages--languages which are no longer
spoken or written by any people--languages which exist only in ancient writings. The meaning
of many of the words of those languages is, in consequence, lost. The writings of the Old Testament
are the only books remaining in the Hebrew language. There are no Hebrew books to throw light
on dark passages, or to settle the meaning of doubtful words and phrases. True, we have Greek
and Hebrew dictionaries and grammars, but these dictionaries and grammars are the work of imperfect
and erring men, who had no other means oi understanding the meaning of the Greek and Hebrew
languages than ourselves. These dictionaries and grammars differ from each other. None of them
are perfect. The best abound with errors. We have better means of obtaining a knowledge of
the Greek language than of the Hebrew--but the Greek of the New Testament is a peculiar dialect,
not to be found in any other book. It is, therefore, as difficult to translate the New Testament
as the Old. If, herefore, we would find a Bible that does not bear the marks of human imperfection
and error, we must look for it in what are called the original Greek and Hebrew. But there
is no such Bible. The Greek and Hebrew Bibles are as really imperfect as the English translations.
The Greek and Hebrew Bibles are as really the work of imperfect and erring men as the English
translations are. Many people imagine that there is only one Greek and Hebrew Bible, and that
that one was written by Moses and the prophets, and by the evangelists and the apostles. But
this is not the case. There are several Greek and Hebrew Bibles, and all of them are the compilations
of fallible men. We have several Hebrew Old Testaments, and quite a number of Greek New Testaments,
all compiled by different persons, but drawn, to some extent, from different sources. It should
be understood, that the oldest Greek and Hebrew Bibles are not printed books, but written ones.
They were written before the art of printing was known among Jews or Christians. Those written
or manuscript Bibles are more numerous than the Greek and Hebrew printed Bibles. They are the
work of different men, in different countries, and different ages. And no two of them are alike.
They differ from each other almost endlessly. Some contain more, some less. Some have passages
in one form, others have them in other forms. John Mills compared a number of those manuscripts
of the New Testament, and found that they differed from each other in thirty thousand places.
He marked and collated thirty thousand various readings. Other men have compared the Greek
manuscripts of the New Testament, and discovered upwards of a hundred thousand various readings--a
hundred thousand places or particulars in which they differ from each other. A similar diversity
of readings is to be found in the Hebrew manuscripts of the Old Testaments. Now it is from
these imperfect and discordant manuscripts that men have to make their Greek and Hebrew Bibles.
They have nothing else from which to make them. And those Greek and Hebrew Bible makers have
no means of knowing which of the various and contradictory manuscripts are the best.... You
must understand that the original writings from which the manuscripts now in existence originated,
have perished many ages ago. It is probable that the last of them perished more than sixteen
hundred years ago. We have, therefore, no opportunity of comparing existing manuscripts with
the original writings, in order to and out which are the true, the original readings. The discordant
and contradictory manuscripts, therefore, can never be corrected.... It is not only of the
common English Bible, therefore, that the words of the resolution are true, but of every Bible
known, whether printed or written, whether in Greek and Hebrew, or in modern languages."

Since Mr. Baker has resided in America, he has visited England, and lectured for the Secular
and Freethought Societies in England and Scotland; the total number of lectures he delivered
during his visit amounted to 153, besides engaging in several debates, the principal one being
with the Rey. Brewin Grant, at Halifax, during ten nights, on the "Divine Authority of the
Bible," which is now published. The views now held by Mr. Barker on "God" and Secularism may
be seen from the following extract of a letter addressed to the Editor of the Reasoner, written
by Mr. Barker from America, on February 22, 1853:--

"I confess I know nothing of God, but as he is revealed in his works. With me, the word God
stands for the unseen cause of all natural phenomena. I attribute to God no quality but what
seems necessary to account for what I see in nature. My Jewish and Christian notions of God
are all gone, except so far as they appear to be the utterances of nature.... As to Secularism,
I think our business is with the seen, the worldly, the physical, the secular. Our whole duty
seems to me to be truly and fully to unfold ourselves, and truly and fully to unfold others:
to secure the greatest possible perfection of being and condition, and the largest possible
share of life and enjoyment to all mankind in this present world. The machinery of sects and
priesthoods for saving souls and fitting men for heaven, I regard as wasteful and injurious
folly, except so far as it may tend to better men and improve their condition here. I have
a hope of future life, but whatever is best for this life must be best for another life; whatever
is best for the present, must be best for the eternal future. To reveal to men the laws of
their own being, and to unfold to them the laws of nature generally, and to bring them into
harmony with those laws, is, therefore, with me, the whole business of man. If there be another
world, as 1 hope, it will, I suppose, be governed by the same laws as this. If men live on
for ever, they will have all the better start in a future life, for having got well on in this.
As an art, therefore, I believe in Secularism."

J. W.

