Supposed great southern land--Exploring expedition formed--Captain Cook appointed commander--Equipment
of the Resolution and Adventure--Sail from Plymouth--Reported discovery by the French--Steer
south--Land-like appearance of the ice--Intense cold--Separation of the ships--Icebergs-- Sail
from the Antarctic regions for New Zealand--Reach Dusky Bay--Health of the crew--Intercourse
with the natives--Visit the ship--Garden planted--Live stock left--Sail for Queen Charlotte's
Sound--Fall in with the Adventure--Traffic with the natives--Voyage continued--Scurvy on board
Captain Furneaux's ship--Sail for Otaheite--Nearly on a reef-- Natives visit the ship--Propensity
to steal--Treatment--Interview with the King--Sail for Matavia Bay--Sail for Huaheine--Behaviour
of the chief--A native is taken on board--Leave the Society Islands--Steer for Middleburg and
Amsterdam--Reception--Description of the country--Object of the voyage continued--Quantities
of ice--Illness of the commander-- Easter Island--Ancient monuments--Sail for the Marquesas--Anchor
at Nombre de Dios--The Indians come on board--A savage killed--Return to Otaheite--Native expedition
against Eimeo--Voyage continued--Savage Island--The Tonga group--At Erromongo--Quarrel with
the natives--Tamia-- Native cultivation--A new island discovered--Reception by the natives--
New Caledonia--Norfolk Island--News of the Adventure--Reach Christmas Sound--The natives--Sandwich
Land--Vain search for Cape Circumcision-- Steer for the Cape of Good Hope--News of an accident
which befell the Adventure--Sail for England--Results of the voyage.

Before the return of Captain Cook to England it was supposed that New Guinea, New Holland,
and New Zealand formed one great southern land, denominated Terra Australis Incognita.  Though
he had proved that these were islands, it was still supposed that there existed a great southern
land, which had been seen by a French officer, Captain Bouvet, in 1739.

To determine whether such a land did exist, it was resolved to send out another expedition,
the command of which was offered to Captain Cook. He gladly accepted it, and chose two vessels--the
Resolution, of four hundred and sixty-two tons, on board of which he sailed, and the Adventure,
of three hundred and thirty-six tons, of which Captain Tobias Furneaux was made commander.
Two astronomers, Messrs. Wales and Bayley; three naturalists, Mr Foster and his son, a Swede--Dr
Sparrmann; and a landscape painter, accompanied the expedition.

An abundant supply of provisions of an anti-scorbutic nature was placed on board.  Each ship
also carried a vessel in frame of twenty tons, to serve as tenders.

After frequent delays the two ships left Plymouth on the 13th of July, 1772, and shaped a course
for Madeira.  Merely touching at Funchal, they took in a supply of water at the Cape de Verdes.
The two ships then sailed for the Cape of Good Hope.  On the 22nd of November Captain Cook
left the Cape of Good Hope, and steered a course towards Cape Circumcision, the name given
to the point of land which Captain Bouvet supposed to be a part of the southern continent.

As the ships got farther south, the weather became so cold that much of their live stock died.
On the 10th of December an island of ice was seen, after which thick hazy weather came on.
While the Resolution was leading, an iceberg was discerned from her deck.  It was about fifty
feet high, with perpendicular sides, against which the sea broke furiously.  Captain Furneaux,
mistaking it for land, hauled his wind. Other navigators probably have been deceived as he
was.  Day after day the ship sailed on among icebergs, exposed to storms of rain and sleet
and constant storms, although it was the middle of summer.

Captain Cook now steered to the west, hoping to get round the ice and reach the highest position
of Cape Circumcision; but he finally came to the conclusion that Captain Bouvet had mistaken
some lofty icebergs surrounded by field ice for land.

The ships were thus engaged until the 8th of February, when, during thick weather, the Adventure
was separated from the Resolution.  For three days Captain Cook cruised in search of her, and
was at last compelled to proceed.  Here numerous whales were seen, and flocks of antarctic
petrels.  While two of the boats were engaged in collecting loose ice off an iceberg, to melt
for water, it was seen to lean over until it completely turned bottom up, though it thus lost
neither in height nor size.  The boats providentially escaped.  By the middle of March, the
antarctic summer being over, Captain Cook shaped a course for New Zealand, where he intended
to recruit his crew and refit the ship. On the 26th he entered Dusky Bay in the middle island,
having sailed over nearly ten thousand miles without having once sighted land.  His crew had
been kept in excellent health by the anti-scorbutic provisions on which they were fed, and
by the frequent airing of the ship by fires. A snug harbour having been found, the ship was
warped into it, and places forthwith cleared in which the observatories, forge, and the tents
were set up.

A few families of natives only were met with.  One of these having taken up their quarters
near the watering-place, soon became intimate.  They looked with perfect indifference on the
trinkets offered them, but evidently set a high value on hatchets and spike nails.

The head of the family and his daughter paid a visit to the ship. Before stepping on board,
however, he presented a couple of talc hatchets to the captain and Mr Foster, and the girl
gave one to Mr Hodges.  He also waved a green branch, with which he struck the ship, and made
a speech before coming on board.

On a shooting expedition another party of natives was met with, the chief of whom approached
with a plant in his hand, one end of which he presented to the captain, while he himself held
the other.  After making a speech, he took off his cloak, which he placed on Cook's shoulders.
After this he and his companions attended the English to the boat, and assisted in launching
her, and seemed much inclined to carry off anything they could lay hands on.

Captain Cook, according to his universal plan, here left five geese in a retired cove, hoping
that by multiplying they might benefit the natives. He also had a garden dug, and sown with
seeds of various sorts.

Leaving this harbour, the Resolution sailed for Queen Charlotte's Sound, encountering on the
way no less than six waterspouts of unusual size.  A gun was got ready to fire, but they all
passed by without touching her.  On reaching their destination, the Adventure, to the satisfaction
of all, was found to have arrived there first.  At Queen Charlotte's Sound a garden was also
planted, and Captain Cook gave the natives some potatoes, explaining their use, and the mode
of cultivating them.  A boar and two sows, and a pair of goats, were likewise landed. The natives
appeared to be friendly, and some came on board with their children, for whom they hoped to
obtain presents, though at first it was supposed with the intention of selling them.  To one
of the boys, about ten years old, a white shirt had been given, and he went about showing it
until he encountered an old goat, who knocked him over into some dirt.  The boy was inconsolable
until his shirt had been washed and dried.  While a party of the natives were on board, a large
canoe was seen coming into the harbour.  Some of the natives hurried on shore to look after
the women and children, but two who remained begged the captain to fight for them, and fire
at the strangers.

The latter, however, came alongside without fear.  Their first question was for Tupia.  On
hearing that he was dead, some of them expressed their sorrow.  Among those he saw, Captain
Cook did not recognise a single person he knew when there in 1770, and he concluded, therefore,
that the entire population had changed since then.

The Resolution and Adventure once more proceeded on their voyage, on the 7th of June, 1773,
it being Captain Cook's intention to explore the unknown part of the Southern Ocean between
New Zealand and Cape Horn. After they had been the greater part of the month at sea, Captain
Furneaux sent word that the scurvy had broken out on board his ship, that the cook had died,
and that twenty men were ill.  It appeared that her people had neglected to eat vegetables
while at Queen Charlotte's Sound, and since they had been at sea, Captain Cook had from the
first insisted on having wild celery, scurvy-grass, and other herbs boiled with the peas and
wheat, both for officers and men.  He consequently had only three men ill, and one alone of
scurvy.  Instead, therefore, of continuing the cruise to the southward, he determined to put
into Otaheite.  Several low islands, on which cocoa-nut trees grew, were seen on the way. 
Having reached the south-east end of Otaheite, the two ships being together, at daybreak they
found themselves not half a league from a reef, towards which the send of the sea, the wind
having fallen, was drifting them rapidly.  To anchor was impossible.  A passage was discovered
through the reef, but a boat being sent ahead to sound, it was found there was not sufficient
water for the ships to pass on. The horrors of shipwreck threatened the explorers.  Closer
and closer they drove to the reef.  At last the anchors were let go.  The Resolution was brought
up in less than three fathoms, striking at every fall of the sea.  The Adventure, however,
remained afloat. Kedge anchors and hawsers were immediately carried out, which would have availed
but little had not the tide turned, and a light breeze coming off shore, both vessels making
sail, got safely to sea.

On anchoring close in shore in the Bay of Oaiti-piha, numbers of natives came off, bringing
numerous fruits and vegetables, which they exchanged for nails and beads; but the petty chiefs
were greatly addicted to pilfering and cheating in every possible way, and on one occasion
the whole party being found stealing, they were turned out of the ship and two muskets fired
over their heads to frighten them.  They took to flight, leaving a little boy, who was at first
greatly alarmed, but having been kindly treated and some beads given him, he was sent safely
on shore.  This at once restored the confidence of the natives.

On another occasion a native seized a musket from one of the sentinels and made off with it.
He was seen, however, by one of the chiefs, and his prize restored.  On the following day the
chief brought a quantity of cocoa-nuts tied up in bundles, but on opening them it was found
that they were empty.  The chief did not seem disconcerted, but acknowledged, after opening
two or three himself, that the inside had been extracted. He afterwards, to make amends, sent
off a quantity of plantains and bananas.

After an interview with the King Waheatoua, whom Cook had formerly known under the name of
Tearee, the ships sailed for Matavia Bay.  Before they anchored, a large number of natives
came off.  Among them was the King Otoo.  Next day Captain Cook and some of his officers set
off to visit him.  Captain Cook having given the presents he had brought, King Otoo inquired
for Tupia and for several officers who had been on board the Endeavour.  Afterwards coming
on board, when, entering the cabin, several of the chiefs who had been there before, uncovered
their shoulders, although they showed no other mark of respect.  He took an especial fancy
to the bagpipes.  In return for the civilities he had received, he entertained the voyagers
with a dramatic performance, in which his sister, elegantly dressed in a robe of feathers,
took part.

Leaving this place, the ships anchored in the harbour of Owharre, in the island of Huaheine.
Abundance of provisions were exchanged, and the chief Oree, who had on Cook's former voyage
exchanged names with him, was still living, and now seemed greatly rejoiced to see him again.
Friendly intercourse was maintained with the people.  Notwithstanding this, Mr Sparrmann, one
day while wandering in the woods, was robbed of his clothes and hanger.  Oree, on hearing of
it, shed tears, and by his personal exertions recovered most of the articles.

From this island Captain Furneaux received on board his ship a young man named Omai, who was
anxious to accompany him; but he was not a chief, and was inferior in figure, complexion, and
manners to most of them.

Ulietea was also visited.  Here also a friendly intercourse was kept up with the natives. 
Captain Cook, who had before praised the inhabitants of these islands greatly, now discovered
many of their horrible habits and customs; among others he found that human sacrifices were
offered up at their Morais, the victims frequently being persons to whom the priests had taken
a dislike, and who, unsuspicious of their intended fate, were knocked on the head.

After leaving the Society Islands, Cook steered west for Middleburg and Amsterdam, discovered
by Tasman.  At the first island the explorers met with an enthusiastic reception.  The chief
conducted the officers to his dwelling, which was built near the shore at the head of a fine
lawn, under the shade of some shaddock-trees, in a most delightful situation. Here they were
entertained and invited to join in a kava feast.  Cook was the only person who ventured to
taste the beverage.

Leaving this island, they steered for Amsterdam or Tonga Taboo.  The natives welcomed them
with white flags.  When Cook landed, their chief Attago conducted him over part of the country;
and so fair was its aspect, that he could fancy himself transported into the most fertile plains
of Europe; not a spot of waste ground was to be seen.  Fences were often formed of useful plants,
and the road occupied as little space as possible.  In other places the inhabitants resembled
those of the Society Islands.

As it was now time to prosecute his researches in high southern latitudes, he sailed on the
7th of October, and having sighted Pilstart, he on the 21st descried the land of New Zealand,
though, owing to contrary winds, he did not reach Queen Charlotte's Sound until the 3rd of
November, having in the meantime lost sight of the Adventure.  He here remained three or four
weeks, waiting for her appearance, and then sailed in the hopes of completing the circle round
the pole in a high latitude.

This was a most dreary part of his voyage.  Immense masses of ice were seen, and occasionally
the antarctic petrels, grey albatrosses, and some other birds; but there were few other objects
of interest to amuse the minds of the crew.  Often the ship was in great peril from icebergs.
At one time no less than ninety-seven were seen within a field of ice, besides a number outside,
many of them very large, and looking like a range of mountains rising one above another until
they were lost sight of in the clouds.  The outer or northern edge of this field was composed
of loose or broken ice, so closely packed together that it was impossible for the ship to enter
it.  Since therefore he could not proceed farther to the south, he determined to stand back
in search of a more genial clime.  Many of his crew were suffering, and he himself was seized
with so dangerous an illness that his life was despaired of. Unable to leave his cabin, Mr
Cooper, his first officer, took charge of the ship.  When he began to recover, a favourite
dog, belonging to Mr Forster, was killed to supply him with fresh meat and broth.

The first land made was Easter Island, which had been in vain looked for by Byron, Cartaret,
and Bougainville.  There was no anchoring-ground, and but a very small supply of fresh provisions
or water.  The inhabitants, numbering between six and seven hundred, had made less progress
in the arts than any other tribes of Polynesia.  The objects of chief interest in the island
were gigantic statues, some from fifteen to twenty-seven feet in height; on the head of each
was a cylindrical block of red-coloured stone, wrought perfectly round.  The carving on the
upper portion resembling a human head and breast--was rude, though the nose and chin were fairly
delineated, while the ears were of a length out of all proportion.  The natives paid the statues
no respect, and it appeared unlikely that they could have been carved by the ancestors of the
present inhabitants.

From Easter Island Cook steered northward, until he came in sight of the Marquesas, discovered
by Mendana.  Passing between Dominica and Santa Christina, he came to an anchor in the port
called Nombre de Dios by the Spaniards.  A number of canoes immediately came off, their occupants
richly tattooed, bringing bread--fruit and fish, which they willingly exchanged for nails.
In each canoe was a heap of stones, and every man had a sling tied round his hand.  Next morning
many more came off and began to barter, and the deck was soon crowded.  One of the savages
stole an iron stanchion, when, as a warning, Cook gave an order to the marines to fire over
the canoe in which the plunderer was making off. Unfortunately a marine aiming at him, shot
him dead.

They, however, returned after some time, and again began bartering; but some of the gentlemen
incautiously introduced new articles of trade, which were eagerly sought for, especially red
feathers.  When these were not to be obtained, the savages refused to bring off more provisions.
Cook had to sail away without them.

He now steered nearly south-west, until the most easterly of King George's Islands was reached.
Hence he returned to Otaheite, where he was warmly welcomed by the natives.  Here provisions
had become very plentiful.  Numerous new habitations had been erected, and an immense number
of canoes, destined for an expedition against Eimeo, were drawn up along the beach.

Some of the war canoes were from fifty to ninety feet long.  In all there were three hundred
and thirty vessels, carrying nine thousand seven hundred and sixty warriors and rowers, dressed
in breast-plates and turbans or helmets, while other warriors were armed with clubs, spears,
and stones.  Having refitted the ship, Cook sailed for Huaheine, where he found his old friend
Oree as kind as ever.  They were received in the most affectionate manner by him and his family.
The old chief wept when he heard that Captain Cook was not likely again to return, and inquired
where he would be buried.  When Cook replied "At Stepney," a hundred voices instantly echoed
"Stepney mariai no Toote!"  Toote being the name by which the natives called Cook.

Here Oedidee, who had been so long on board, was landed, greatly to the grief of the young
islander, who, as he looked up at the ship, burst into tears, and then sank down into the canoe
which was conveying him ashore.

After leaving Olietea, the Resolution proceeded westward, sighting Howe Island, seen by Captain
Wallis, and afterwards an island before unknown, to which the name of Palmerston was given.
On the 20th of June she came in sight of an island eleven leagues in circuit.  Keeping the
ship well out to sea, Captain Cook in vain attempted to open a communication with the natives,
who, regardless of the muskets pointed at them, rushed forward, shaking their spears.  One
man darted his weapon at Captain Cook, who, to defend himself, pulled his trigger, but his
musket missed fire.  Unwilling to shed blood, he and his companions retired to their boat.
In consequence of the fierce behaviour of the natives, he named this Savage Island.

After leaving this place, the Resolution steered westward, or west-south-west, until a string
of islands was seen ahead, which proved to be those of the Tonga group.  A canoe came off.
At first the inhabitants appeared to be friendly, but various thefts were committed. Mr Clark's
gun was snatched out of his hand, and another savage seized a fowling-piece belonging to the
surgeon, who was out shooting.  The marines were therefore landed, and took possession of two
large double sailing canoes; but the chiefs restored the articles, and brought on board a man
who had been slightly wounded by small shot, stretched on a board as if dead.  They seemed
to think the captain wanted him.  On examination, he proved to be very slightly hurt, and his
wounds were dressed.

After leaving the Friendly Islands, the Australis del Esperito Santo of Quiros was reached.
Sailing round it, Cook proved it to be an island. Passing another, which the natives called
Ambrym, he anchored the next day off another island, of which he discovered the name to be
Mallicolo. The natives were hideous in appearance and very dark, while their language differed
entirely from that of the other South Sea Islands. Having passed several more islands, he again
anchored, on the 3rd of August, on the south-east side of Erromango.  Here a large number of
people assembled as the boat pulled for the shore.  Cook landed with only a green branch in
his hand, and offered a number of presents to the chief, which were accepted.  Still the natives
were armed with clubs, spears, bows and arrows, and kept advancing in a suspicious manner.
On this the captain stepped back into the boat, when the islanders, rushing forward, attempted
to drag her up the beach.  Others snatched at the oars.  The boat succeeded in getting off,
and returning to the ship.  Cook now ordered a gun to be fired, and a shot was pitched among
the crowd.  Happily no one was killed, but it prevented all further communication with the
savages, who too probably did not forget the way they had been treated.

After leaving Erromango, Cook steered for another island, which was called Tanna, and on which
a volcano was seen in full activity.  The natives, coming off, proved to be daring thieves,
some attempting to steal even the rings from the rudder.  An effort was made to carry off the
buoys, but a musket or two, fired over their heads, had the effect of driving them off.  One
old man, who said his name was Paowang, continued to bring off provisions, and barter with
the English.  After some time Cook, with a well-armed party, landed, but the natives, instead
of being frightened, began to use such threatening gestures that it was necessary to fire upon
them.  At the same time the guns opened from the ship.  At first the savages dispersed, but
soon came back in a humble manner, and there appeared every probability that they would prove
submissive.

After this the English were able to make excursions in various parts of the island, while old
Paowang enabled them to obtain as much wood as was required, as also bread-fruit, plantains,
and cocoa-nuts.

Black and savage as were the inhabitants, every hill was covered with plantations.  The vegetation
was luxuriant, and the valleys watered by sparkling streams.  Having surveyed the whole of
the group, Captain Cook left Tanna on the 20th of August, and stood for New Zealand.  On her
course to the north-west a fourth island was discovered, and, passing through a reef, the ship
came to an anchor.  The natives, in numerous canoes, came alongside, and were invited on board.
Although naked, with the exception of the usual wrapper, they were intelligent, and examined
with much interest the goats, hogs, ducks, dogs, and cats.  Some were invited into the cabin,
but would touch none of the provisions except some yams.

Afterwards Captain Cook landed, and all the chiefs made speeches.  One of them, Teabooma, especially,
showing a friendly disposition, was of great use in obtaining water, fuel, and provisions.
Though hundreds of natives came on board, not a theft was committed.  In some respects the
country resembled New Holland, but the sides of the mountains and other places had an especially
dreary aspect.  The natives had made some advances out of a purely savage state.  They lived
in well-thatched circular huts, some of which had two fireplaces, and some even two stories,
while their canoes were of large size.

Such was the first knowledge obtained of New Caledonia, and it was considered, with the exception
of New Zealand, the largest island in the Pacific.

Some of these were cut down for spars, and the Resolution then bore away for New Zealand.

On the 10th of October a small island was discovered, rising to a great height out of the ocean,
and bearing numbers of spruce pine and cabbage-palms.  It was uninhabited, and possibly no
human being had ever before landed there.  The name of Norfolk Island was given to it, and
it was afterwards used by the British as a station for twice-convicted prisoners.

On the 18th of October the Resolution anchored in Ship Cove, near Mount Egmont, in New Zealand.
The conduct of the natives was suspicious.  They found that the Adventure had been there, and
feared from what was said that some accident had happened to her; what it was could not be
made out.

On the 10th of November Captain Cook again sailed, and on the 20th of December reached a harbour
at the western entrance of the Straits of Magellan, to which the name of "Christmas Sound"
was given.  Their clothing consisted of two or three seal-skins, forming a cloak.  Some had
only one sealskin, and the women wore a sort of apron.  On the 28th the Resolution again sailed,
and rounded Cape Horn the next morning.  She afterwards put into Success Bay, in the Straits
of Le Maire, where a notice was left for Captain Furneaux, should he call there.  Vast numbers
of sea-lions, bears, geese, and ducks were obtained, the former for the sake of their blubber,
from which oil was made.  On the 3rd of January, 1775, the Resolution was again at sea.  Ten
days afterwards two islands were discovered--one being named "Willis's Island," from the man
who first saw it, and the other "Bird Island,"--while beyond, land was seen extending for a
considerable distance.

On approaching, they landed at three different places,--the British flag was displayed, and
possession of the country taken in his Majesty's name.  It was a dreary region, bordered by
perpendicular cliffs of considerable height, from which pieces were continually breaking off.
Beyond, the country was equally savage and horrible, not even a shrub being seen large enough
to make a toothpick.

At first it was supposed to be a continent, but proved, after they had sailed partly round
it, to be an island, about seventy leagues in circuit.  After passing other islets and rocks,
land of considerable extent was discovered, to which the name of "Sandwich Land" or "Southern
Thule" was given.  It rose to a great height, covered everywhere with snow.  While the Resolution
was close in with the coast, a great westerly swell sent her nearer and nearer to it.  No bottom
was found, and a thick haze obscured the land.  It appeared too probable that the ship would
be dashed to pieces on one of the most horrible coasts in the world.  When the fog cleared
away, a point appeared, beyond which no land was visible.

After escaping this danger, Captain Cook looked in vain for the long-sought Cape Circumcision.
Convinced, at last, that it did not exist, to the delight of all he steered for the Cape of
Good Hope.  On arriving there he found a letter from Captain Furneaux, giving an account of
the massacre of a midshipman and a boat's crew by the natives, who had rushed down on them
while at dinner, and clubbed them all.

After being treated with great courtesy by the Dutch, Captain Cook sailed for England on the
27th of April, in company with the Dutton East Indiaman, and on the 30th of July, 1775, he
anchored at Spithead, having been absent from home three years and eighteen days.

Besides the numerous important discoveries made by Cook on this voyage, he had shown that,
by due attention, the health of a ship's company can be preserved in all climates, and while
undergoing extreme toil.  His system was to make the crew keep their persons, hammocks, bedding,
and clothes clean and dry; to air the ship once or twice every week with fires, or to smoke
her with gunpowder mixed with vinegar and water.  A fire in an iron pot was frequently lowered
to the bottom of the well. The ship's coppers were kept constantly cleaned.  Fresh water was
taken on board whenever practicable, and vegetables, including scurvy-grass, and greens of
all descriptions, were, when possible, obtained.  As a remedy against scurvy, sweet wort was
found most valuable, two or three pints a day being given to a man on the slightest appearance
of the disease.  Preparations of potatoes, lemons, and oranges were served out, and a pound
of sour-krout was supplied to each man twice a week, while sugar and wheaten flour were found
useful, but oatmeal and fish oil were considered to promote scurvy.

The voyage, now completed, was justly considered without a parallel in the history of maritime
enterprise.  Never, indeed, had any expedition been conducted with greater skill and perseverance.
Cook received the honours which were his due.  He was raised to the rank of Post-Captain, and
named a Captain in Greenwich Hospital, and in February of the following year he was unanimously
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

CAPTAIN COOK'S THIRD VOYAGE--A.D. 1776.

A third voyage planned--The Resolution and Discovery commissioned-- Expedition sails--Omai
taken on board--Touch at the Cape of Good Hope-- Van Diemen's Land--New Zealand--The Friendly
or Tonga Islands reached-- Acquaintance formed with Feenon--His treacherous designs--Cook's
determined conduct checks the natives--Visits Otaheite--Omai shows his true character--Astonishment
of natives on seeing horses ridden--Omai landed at Huaheine with his property--His bad conduct
and wretched fate--Desertions at Ulietea--Live stock landed--Bolabola and other islands visited--Unknown
islands sighted--Cook lands--Natives receive him with deep respect--Assist the watering party--Name
of Sandwich Islands given to the group--Ships proceed to coast of America--Natives come off
at Nootka Sound--Anchor in Prince William's Sound--The ships enter Behring's Straits--Turned
back by the ice--Anchor off Oonalaska-- Kind behaviour of the Russian authorities--The expedition
returns to the Sandwich Islands--Sail round them, and come to an anchor in Karakavoa Bay--Vast
numbers of natives come off--Cook supposed to be their god Rono--Honours paid to him--Ceremonies
at a temple--Ships put to sea-- Compelled to return--Temper of the natives changed--Attempts
to coerce them--Death of Captain Cook and several men--His character--Captain Clerke succeeds,
and makes peace with the natives--Ships sail in search of a passage round America--Touch at
Saint Peter and Saint Paul-- Courtesy of the Russians--Ships again compelled to return by the
ice-- Death of Captain Clerke--Captain Gore takes command--Sails for Macaohigh price obtained
for seal-skins--Commanders of French ships ordered to treat the Adventure and Resolution as
neutrals--Touch at the Cape of Good Hope--Steer round Scotland, and reach the Nore 4th of October,
1780--Remarks on Captain Cook's discoveries--Notice of his family.

It had long been the desire of scientific men to discover a passage round the north coast of
America between the Atlantic and Pacific.  In 1773, Captain Phipps, afterwards Lord Mulgrave,
went to Baffin's Bay, but had returned without making any important discovery.  At a dinner
at the house of Lord Sandwich, to which Sir Hugh Palliser, Mr Stevens, Secretary to the Admiralty,
and Captain Cook had been invited, the importance of the design was under discussion, when
Cook, although he might justly have enjoyed quiet and repose, volunteered to command any expedition
which might be undertaken.  His offer was accepted.  He was at once appointed to the command
of the Resolution, and Captain Clerke, who had been with him on each of his previous voyages,
received orders to commission the Discovery, a vessel of three hundred tons, fitted out as
the Adventure had been.  The ships were ready early in July, 1776.  Everything that could tend
to preserve the health of the crews was put on board,--warm clothing, as well as numerous animals,
garden seeds of all sorts, and iron tools to traffic with the natives, while many things, purely
for the benefit of the people, were to be supplied.  The chief object of the voyage was to
find a passage from the Pacific into the Atlantic; but the Society Islands and other spots
were to be visited on the way.  The young savage Omai, who had been petted and made a lion
of in London, but whose advancement in civilisation was entirely superficial, and who had imbibed
no religious principles, was to be restored to his country, under the foolish notion that he
would convey to the islanders of the Pacific an exalted idea of the "greatness and majesty
of the British nation," as a writer of the day expresses it.

A very brief sketch of this voyage can alone be given.  The two ships sailed from Plymouth
on the 12th of July, 1776, and reached the Cape of Good Hope on the 10th of November.  Again
sailing on the 3rd of December, they sighted Marion and the Crozet Islands, and coasted along
Kerguelen's Land, which was found to be an island, desolate and sterile in the extreme.  On
the 24th of January they anchored in Adventure Bay, on the coast of Van Diemen's Land.  A few
natives appeared, whose only weapons were pointed sticks, and who were black and perfectly
naked. Sailing on the 30th of January, the ships reached Queen Charlotte's Sound in New Zealand
on the 12th of the next month.  The natives were somewhat shy, fearing that Cook had come to
punish them for the murder of the boat's crew belonging to the Adventure.  Some of those who
had not taken part in it urged him to do so; but, as he remarks, "the natives of one part were
constantly requesting him to destroy their neighbours--indeed, the tribes were living in a
state of warfare among each other."

Leaving Queen Charlotte's Sound, Mangeea was reached, a pleasing fertile island, and beyond
it another called Wateea, a spot of great beauty, diversified by hills and plains.  The inhabitants
were in general remarkably handsome, and were of the same race as those of the Society Islands.
Thence a course was steered for Hervey Island, seen on the previous voyage.  Though then supposed
not to be inhabited, several canoes came off, carrying men of a somewhat darker hue and a more
fierce and warlike aspect than the natives of Mangeea, though probably of the same race.

On the passage to the Friendly Islands, the ships called off Palmerston Island, where scurvy-grass,
palm-cabbages, and fodder for the animals and birds, and cocoa-nuts for the crew, were obtained.

Passing Savage Island on the 1st of May, they dropped anchor at Annamooka.  Here Cook made
the acquaintance of Feenon, who, though then only a tributary, afterwards became lord of the
whole group.  By his means an abundant supply of provisions of all sorts was obtained. Feenon
and another chief, Omai, accompanied him to Hapai, belonging to the same archipelago.  Here
Cook accompanied them on shore, and a large concourse of people, numbering three thousand,
assembled, whom the chief addressed, urging them to bring such provisions as were required.

They were entertained with various games, such as wrestling and pugilistic matches.  Some warriors
engaged in a succession of single combats, in which they fought with clubs.  Cook, on landing,
suspected from the behaviour of the chiefs that something more than ordinary was in agitation.
In fact, friendly as they appeared, they had formed a plot, instigated by Feenon, to massacre
their visitors and take possession of their ships, as they did some years afterwards of the
vessel in which Mr Mariner sailed.  Fortunately, disputes arose amongst the conspirators, and
they either abandoned or put off their design. Feenon, notwithstanding his intended treachery,
accompanied their other visitors on board ship, and dined with the captain.  Afterwards he
sent a present of two large hogs, some yams, and a considerable quantity of cloth.  Notwithstanding
this apparently friendly intercourse, the natives, who came on board in considerable numbers,
stole whenever they had an opportunity.  At length, to put a stop to this, Cook seized three
canoes which were alongside, and then going ashore with a strong guard, and having found the
King, his brother Feenon, and some other chiefs in a house, immediately placed a guard over
them, and made them understand that until the things were returned they must remain under restraint.
This had the desired effect, and most of the articles were brought back. Cook then invited
the King and other chiefs to accompany him on board to dinner.  The King set the example, although
the others at first objected, and in a short time the remainder of the things were brought back.

Cook remained at the Tonga Islands for nearly three months.  Having left with them several
useful animals and various seeds, he sailed on the 17th of July for Otaheite.  Here Omai found
several relatives, who showed him little affection until he presented them with some coloured
plumes and other treasures he had brought.  Cook here induced his crew to take cocoa-nut liquor
in exchange for part of their allowance of spirits, with beneficial results.  Omai showed his
true character by associating with the lower orders of the people; and had not Cook interfered,
he would have given everything he possessed away to his worthless companions.  Some horses
had been brought out, on two of which the captains rode daily over the plains of Matavai, to
the great astonishment of the natives, who on all occasions assembled to witness this, to them,
extraordinary feat.

Leaving Otaheite, Cook the next day landed at Eimeo, where one of the goats he carried to stock
their islands was stolen.  It was not until several war canoes and six or eight huts had been
burnt that the natives restored the missing animal.

On the 12th of October, he anchored at Huaheine, where it was arranged that Omai was to be
left, though he himself wished to settle at Ulietea, where his father had possessed some land,
which he hoped to be able to recover through the means of the English.  He was very indignant
on finding that the captain would not consent to do this, but was at last reconciled to the
plan proposed for him.  The grant of a piece of land being obtained from the chief, a house
was built, a garden stocked, and the young savage was sent on shore with various firearms,
toys, a portable organ, an electrical machine, fireworks, with other things, as well as a horse
and a mare, a boar and sow, and a male and female kid. Being thus established, it was hoped
that with these advantages he would be able to maintain himself, and instruct the islanders
in some of the arts of civilisation.  He exhibited the deepest grief when he was at length
landed, and would gladly have remained with his friends.

How different was the conduct of Omai to that which was expected! Abandoning his European dress,
he quickly sank into idleness, barbarously employing his firearms either to assist the chief
in his wars or to shoot those of his countrymen who had offended him.  In three years he died,
despised even by the savages it was supposed that he would have improved.

At Otaheite, where Cook afterwards touched, three or four of his people having deserted, several
members of the chief's family were seized and kept as hostages until they should be delivered
up.  Oreo, the chief, fearing that the runaways might not be discovered, formed a plot to seize
the captain and some of his principal officers; but, as they wisely took care not to put themselves
in his power, this was prevented, and fortunately the deserters were discovered and brought
on board.

Bolabola was the next island visited, for the purpose of recovering an anchor which had been
lost by Bougainville at Otaheite, and brought here as a tribute to its warlike inhabitants;
Cook's object being to manufacture it into iron tools to trade with.  It was easily obtained
from the chief Opoony for some axes and other articles.

Cook here landed, as at other places, goats and hogs, in hopes that the archipelago would in
a few years be stocked with all the valuable domestic animals of Europe.  Sailing from Bolabola
on the 8th of December, he steered northward, and on the 24th saw a low island, of barren appearance,
to which the name of "Christmas Island" was given. It was uninhabited, though nearly twenty
leagues in circumference.  No fresh water could be found here, but three hundred green turtles
were taken.

On the 18th of January, 1778, an island appeared north-east by east, and soon after another
was seen bearing north, and the next day a third, in a west-north-west direction.  From the
second some men came off to the ships in a canoe.  They were of a brown colour, but the features
of many differed little from those of Europeans.  As the vessels steered along the coast, several
villages were seen, and the inhabitants brought off pigs and fine potatoes.  From the looks
of amazement with which they regarded the ships and everything on board, it was evident that
they were unused to European visitors; at the same they exhibited remarkable intelligence.
On rowing ashore with three armed boats and a party of marines, the instant Cook landed, the
natives fell flat on their faces, until by expressive signs he prevailed upon them to rise.
They had brought a number of small pigs, which they presented on plantain-leaves, one of the
party making a long speech.  The people willingly assisted the sailors in rolling the casks
to and from the watering-place, and made no attempt to cheat or steal.

To this group, now first visited by civilised man, the name of the "Sandwich Islands" was given,
in compliment to the First Lord of the Admiralty.  On leaving these islands,--destined to be
so fatal to the discoverer,--the ships steered for New Albion, which had been visited by Drake.
After tacking on and off the shore for several days, they put into a harbour, which received
the title of "Hope Bay."  The morning afterwards three canoes, shaped like Norway yawls, came
off from a village, and a man, dressed in the skin of an animal, with a rattle in each hand,
make a long speech.  Others followed, and one of the party sang a pleasant air in a soft tone.
When the voyagers moved to a safer anchorage, a large number of inhabitants made their appearance.
They willingly supplied the ships with such provisions as they possessed, but would receive
nothing but brass in return, and all brass articles to be found on board were bartered away.
Nearly a month was passed in uninterrupted friendship among these savages.  The inlet was called
"Nootka Sound," from the native name.

Again putting to sea on the 4th of May, Mount Saint Elias was seen. Nine days afterwards the
ships came to an anchor in a bay, on which was bestowed the name of "Prince William's Sound."
The most remarkable feature of some of the inhabitants on its shores was a slit through the
lower lip, parallel with the mouth, through which were worn pieces of carved bone.  Sometimes
the natives would remove this bone, and thrust out their tongues from the opening, which had
a most hideous effect.

After examining an inlet, which it was hoped would lead round the north coast of America, the
vessels sailed south-west round the promontory of Alaska.  At length the discoverers reached
the entrance to Behring's Straits, although not aware at the time of the fact.  About the 9th,
the most westerly point of America was reached, to which the name of Cape Prince of Wales was
given.  On the same evening the coast of Asia came in view, and on the following morning the
ships anchored in a harbour of the Tschutski territories.  Here the natives, though alarmed,
made their visitors profound bows.  A few days after this the ships encountered a dense field
of ice, extending across their course as far as the eye could reach.  To proceed farther was
impossible, and the ships' heads were therefore turned to the southward.  Coasting the shores
of Asia, Cook anchored off Oonalaska.  Here the natives were most inoffensive. Their stature
was low, their necks short, their faces swarthy and chubby; whilst they had black eyes and
small beards.  Their houses were large oblong pits, covered with a roof thatched with grass
and earth.

A few days after the arrival of the ships, the Captains were surprised by a present of a salmon
pie, baked in flour, and a note in Russian, which was delivered to them by two natives.  John
Ledyard, a corporal of marines, afterwards known as a traveller, volunteered to proceed with
the messengers and discover who had sent the gift.  In two days he returned with three Russian
traders, and shortly afterwards Mr Ismyloff, the principal person in the island, arrived. 
Through him Cook transmitted to the Admiralty a letter enclosing a chart of his discoveries.
Intending to make another attempt to find the long-sought-for passage, Cook returned to the
Sandwich Islands.  On the 26th of November he discovered Mowee, lying farther west than the
islands before visited, and on the evening of the 30th a much larger island to windward, called
Owhyhee or Hawaii.  Several weeks were passed in sailing round this island in search of a harbour.
At length the ships came to an anchor, on the morning of January 17th, 1779, in Karakavoa.
Here a vast number of people were assembled to witness, to them, the so novel spectacle.  Multitudes
came off in canoes, crowding into the ships, many hundreds swimming round like shoals of fish,
and the shores were thronged with eager spectators, who expressed their pleasure in shouts,
songs, and various extravagant motions.  It was supposed they fancied Captain Cook to be their
god Rono, who after a long absence had returned to their island.  At the time this he of course
did not know, or he would not have received the worship paid to him.  No sooner was the Resolution
moored, than two chiefs came, accompanied by a priest named Koah, who approached the captain
with much veneration, and threw over his shoulders a piece of red cloth, and then made an offering
to him of a small pig, and landing, they conducted him to a Morai or temple, where he was presented
in due form to their idols, arranged on a platform within it.

After various other ceremonies, the priest presented him with a large live pig and a piece
of red cloth, and the men who brought it prostrated themselves before him.  He now descended
from the platform, and led the captain before a number of other images, each of which he addressed
in a sneering tone, snapping his fingers at it until he came to the centre, when he threw himself
before it and kissed it, requesting the captain to do the same, who throughout had suffered
himself to be directed by the priest Koah.  After this, a feast having been prepared, the two
captains were fed by the priests.

After distributing some presents, the captains returned, being conducted to the boats by men
bearing wands, the people falling down before them as they walked along the beach.  It is sad
to reflect that a man of judgment and intelligence should have submitted to this idolatrous
worship.  After this the King Terreeoboo, with his wife and child, came on board.  He had previously
paid the Resolution a visit, when the ships were off Mowee.  The following day he came in state,
he and his chiefs dressed in rich feathered cloaks, and armed with long spears and helmets.
In the second canoe sat the chief priests, with idols of wicker-work of gigantic size, covered
with feathers of different colours and pieces of red cloth.  Their eyes were large pearl-oysters,
and their mouths were marked with double rows of dogs' fangs, giving them a hideous appearance.

When Cook returned the visit the King threw a superb cloak over his shoulders, and placed a
crown of feathers on his head, spreading six other cloaks at his feet, of great beauty, while
his attendants brought four hogs, sugar-canes, and cocoa-nuts.  After this the ships sailed,
but, meeting with very bad weather, were compelled to put back into Karakavoa.  On their return
it was observed by some of those on board that a change had taken place in the minds of some
of the natives. Instead, however, of trying to win back the people by gentle means, force was
resorted to directly any offence was committed.  Some of the people having stolen several articles
from the Discovery, were trying to escape, when she opened fire upon them.  The articles were
returned, but an officer on shore not knowing this, seized a canoe belonging to one of the
chiefs, who, in a squabble, was afterwards knocked down. Captain Cook, also ignorant of what
had taken place, followed the supposed thieves into the interior, although he returned unmolested.
The next day the Discovery's cutter was carried off, and Captain Cook, in order to recover
it, resolved to seize the King.  With this object he landed, carrying with him his double-barrelled
gun, accompanied by Mr Phillips and nine marines.  Mr King ordered the marines to keep their
pieces loaded, and to be on their guard.  He then, going to the huts of the priests, endeavoured
to quiet their alarm.  Captain Cook in the meantime reached the old King's house, and persuaded
him to come on board; but as they were embarking one of his wives came down and induced him
to give up his intention.  A vast number of armed men now began to collect, and Captain Cook,
seeing that matters were growing serious, considered how he might best prevent bloodshed, and
endeavoured to draw off his party.

Meantime the boats stationed in the bay had fired at some canoes, and a chief of high rank
had been killed.  The hostile natives soon heard of this.  Mr Phillips, on seeing the state
of affairs, had withdrawn his men to some rocks close to the water.  The anger of the natives
being excited, they now began to throw stones, and one of them threatened Captain Cook with
his dagger.  In defence he fired one of his barrels, loaded with small shot.  He then discharged
the other, and a man was killed.

From that moment nothing more was seen of him.  The natives rushing on, four of the marines
were killed before they could reach the boats; another was saved by the gallantry of Lieutenant
Phillips, who, though wounded himself, leapt overboard, and dragged the man who was struggling
in the water into the pinnace.

Lieutenant King had remained near the observatory with a party of his men.  Though the natives
attacked him, he drove them off, and they at last willingly agreed to a truce.  He afterwards
tried to obtain the body of his captain, and in a few days some human flesh was brought off
by a man, who said that this was all that remained, the head, bones, and hands being in possession
of the King.  With the exception of the head the greater portion of the remainder was subsequently
brought on board, and they being placed in a coffin, were committed to the deep with the usual
naval honours.

So angered were the crews of the two ships at the loss of the captain, that it was with the
greatest difficulty the officers could restrain them from hurrying on shore and wreaking their
vengeance on the heads of the natives.

Thus died Captain Cook in the fifty-first year of his age, surpassed by none as a seaman, and
was probably equalled by few as a marine surveyor and draughtsman; while, if he was at times
hasty, he was kind-hearted and humane, and possessed the important power of attaching both
officers and men to his person.  Captain Clerke, who succeeded to the command, made peace with
the chiefs, many of whom came on board expressing their sorrow at what had happened, while
the natives brought off provisions as usual.  Indeed, as the ships sailed away they expressed
every mark of affection and good-will.

Two other islands of the group, Woakoo and Atooi, were visited, when the natives behaved in
the same friendly way as elsewhere.  After this, on the 12th of March, the ships sailed for
Behring's Straits, in search of a passage into the Atlantic.

Captain Clerke, who had been suffering for some time from consumption, was evidently fast sinking,
but he still persevered in his undertaking. On the 28th of April the harbour of Saint Peter
and Saint Paul was reached.  The Russian inhabitants, on finding that the explorers were English,
treated them with the greatest possible kindness, and through Major Behin, the Governor of
Bolcheretsk, Captain Clerke sent home an account of the proceedings of the expedition, with
that of the death of Captain Cook.  Both ships, after passing through Behring's Straits, encountered
an icy barrier, against which the Discovery was nearly lost.

Every effort having been made in vain, Captain Clerke resolved to return.  Before the ships
again anchored in the harbour of Saint Peter and Saint Paul he had breathed his last.  He was
there buried on some ground on which it was intended to raise a church.  The command of the
expedition now devolved on Captain Gore, who went on board the Resolution, while Lieutenant
King took charge of the Discovery. That ship, on being examined, was found to have suffered
seriously from the ice.  It seemed surprising, indeed, from the injuries she had received,
that she had kept afloat.

She was repaired as far as possible, some time being spent in these necessary operations, as
also in exchanging civilities between the officers of the Russian garrison and the English.

The ships sailed on the 9th of October, and steered a course for Macao. While in Behring's
Straits sea-otter and other skins had been obtained; these realised altogether upwards of two
thousand pounds.  The report of the high prices obtained on the return home of the expedition,
probably set on foot the fur trade with the west coast of North America, which afterwards became
of such considerable importance.  Here Captain Gore heard that war had broken out between England
and France; but soon afterwards, being informed that the commanders of the French ships had
been directed to treat the expedition under Captain Cook as belonging to a neutral power, he
put to sea, resolved to preserve the strictest neutrality during the remainder of the voyage.

Touching at several places in the Indian seas, the ships at length reached Cape Town, where
they were treated with the same kindness as on former visits.  Sailing thence on the 9th of
May, they made the coast of Ireland on the 12th of August.  Strong southerly winds compelling
them to run to the northward, they rounded Scotland, and at length, on the 4th of October,
arrived at the Nore, after an absence of four years, two months, and twenty-two days.

It is remarkable that during this time the two ships only twice, for a short time, lost sight
of each other.

Owing to the admirable arrangements for preserving health, during the whole time the Resolution
had lost only five men by sickness, three of whom were ill when she left England, while the
Discovery had not lost a man.

Although one of the objects of the expedition had failed, that of finding a way through Behring's
Straits round the north coast of America, during this and his previous voyages Cook had made
far more discoveries than any previous navigator.  He had surveyed the whole eastern coast
of New Holland, and proved it to be an island, as also that of New Zealand.  He had ascertained
the strait between America and Asia to be eighteen leagues in width.

It was not until many years after that any navigator penetrated as far north as he had done.
During all previous expeditions numbers of the men had perished.  During his long and protracted
voyage he lost none by scurvy, and very few from any other disease.

The nation, grateful to him, bestowed a pension of two hundred pounds a year on his wife, and
each of his children had twenty-five pounds a year settled on them, though the latter did not
live long to enjoy it.  Three died in infancy.  Another, a midshipman, was lost on board the
Thunderer.  His widow survived until the year 1835, when, she died at the age of ninety-three.

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

PARRY'S THREE VOYAGES IN SEARCH OF A NORTH-WEST PASSAGE--A.D. 1819.

Ancient voyagers in arctic seas--Parry's voyage in command of the Alexander--Under Captain
John Ross--Parry's first expedition with the Hecla and Griper--The ice reached--Danger among
icebergs--The vessels freed--Steer westward--A way cut through the ice--Enter Lancaster Sound--Sail
up it till stopped by the ice--Reach longitude 110 degrees west--A passage cut through the
ice into a harbour in Melville Island--Preparations for passing the winter--A paper established--Plays
acted--An observatory and house built on shore--The former catches fire--Many of the men frost-bitten
while extinguishing the flames--All animals quit the country--Scurvy appears--Mustard and cress
grown-- Employments of officers and men--Excursions on shore--Ice begins to break up--Get out
of harbour--Attempt to sail westward defeated-- Return--Parry's second expedition with Fury
and Hecla in 1821 to Hudson's Bay--Dangers among icebergs and floes--Visited by Esquimaux--
Fox's Channel and Repulse Bay reached--Further explorations made--No opening found--More natives
appear--Ships frozen in near Lyon Inlet-- Plays acted--A school established--Natives come on
board--Native village--Honesty and intelligence of natives--A clever woman--Iliglink and her
son--The Esquimaux leave them--Ships again put to sea--In fearful danger--Fury and Hecla Strait
reached--Attempt to pass through it--Go into winter quarters--Natives appear--Winter less pleasantly
spent than the former--Great difficulty in escaping--Parry's wish to remain overruled--Ships
swept along by the current--Sail homewards-- Reception at Lerwick--Parry's third voyage in
the Hecla and Fury, 1824--Accompanied by the William Harris transport--Call off Lievely-- Reach
Lancaster Sound--Are frozen up in Port Eowen--Masquerades--Good conduct of the men--Progress
in the school--Expedition on shore--Ships get out of harbour--In fearful danger--The Fury wrecked
and abandoned--The Hecla refitted, sails homeward, and safely reaches England--Remarks on Admiral
Sir Edward Parry.

From the days of Edward the Sixth, and even before that period, attempts have been made to
discover a passage eastward along the northern shores of Europe and Asia to India from the
westward, and from the Atlantic into the Pacific, as well as to reach the north pole.

Among the gallant men who commanded these expeditions the names of Sir Hugh Willoughby, Richard
Chancellor, Sir Martin Frobisher, Barentz, Henry Hudson, and Baffin stand out pre-eminently.
Captain Cook, as we have seen, made attempts to penetrate from the Pacific into the Atlantic,
and at the same time Captain Phipps, afterwards Lord Mulgrave, accompanied by Nelson, then
a midshipman, was engaged in an attempt to reach the north pole along the coast of Spitzbergen.
For some time after this the interest in arctic discovery died away, but was at length revived
in the year 1818 by the reports of the state of the ice, which was said to have broken away
from the coast of Greenland in places where it had been attached to the shore for centuries.
In that year four ships were fitted out--two, the Isabella, commanded by Captain John Ross,
and the Alexander by Lieutenant Parry, to explore the north-west passage, and the Dorothea,
commanded by Captain Buchan, and the Trent, by Lieutenant John Franklin,--for the purpose of
attempting to reach the north pole.  Many of the officers who subsequently became well known
as arctic explorers were employed in these expeditions; among others were Mr Beechy and Mr
Hoppner, both sons of eminent artists, and themselves excellent draughtsmen.

Neither of the expeditions was successful.  Captain Ross sailed up Davis's Straits into Baffin's
Bay, passing the entrances to Smith's and Lancaster Sounds, across both of which he was persuaded
that a lofty range of mountains extended.  These he called Crocker Mountains.  The openings,
he was convinced, were merely the mouths of deep inlets. Lieutenant Parry differed entirely
from his commanding officer, and deep regret was expressed by many on board that an opening,
by examining which important discoveries might have resulted, should have been abruptly quitted.

The reports brought home satisfied most scientific men that an opening existed through Lancaster
Sound.  On the following year, therefore, the Admiralty fitted out an expedition, which was
placed under the command of Lieutenant Parry, who had Mr Beechy as his lieutenant.

As Parry takes the highest rank amongst arctic explorers, it is proposed to give a sketch of
his three voyages to the polar regions in search of a north-west passage.

The expedition being determined on, two vessels, the Hecla, of three hundred and seventy-five
tons, carrying fifty-eight men, and the Griper, a gun brig of one hundred and eighty tons,
with thirty-six persons on board, were forthwith got ready for sea.  Both vessels were strengthened
as much as possible, and stored with provisions for two years, including an ample supply of
anti-scorbutics, and everything which could be thought of to enable the crews to endure the
extreme rigours of a polar winter.  Captain Sabine accompanied Lieutenant Parry as astronomer,
and Mr Beechy as lieutenant.  Among the midshipmen were Joseph Nias and James Clark Ross, who
became eminent arctic explorers. The Griper was commanded by Lieutenant Siddon, and his first
lieutenant was Mr Hoppner.

The two vessels sailed from the Nore on the 11th of May, 1819, and having rounded the Orkneys,
stood across the Atlantic.  Having contrary winds, they made but slow progress.  On the 18th
of June they first fell in with icebergs, flying amid which were numberless petrels, kittiwakes,
tarns, and other winged inhabitants of the northern regions.  Some of these bergs, of which
fifty were seen at a time, were of great size. The heavy southern swell dashed the loose ice
with tremendous force against them, sometimes raising a cloud of white spray, which broke over
their tops to the height of more than a hundred feet, accompanied by a loud noise, resembling
distant thunder.  As the Hecla was drifting on with a southerly current, she was nearly nipped
by a detached floe, which drove her against a berg aground, one hundred and forty feet high,
where the depth of water was one hundred and twenty fathoms, so that its whole height must
have exceeded eight hundred feet.

Parry at first attempted to force his way north and west, amid the masses of ice, in the direction
of Lancaster Sound; but as the vessels were sailing on, the floes suddenly closed round them,
and on the 25th both were so completely beset that it was impossible to turn their heads in
any direction.  Here they were fixed, though in no danger, until the morning of the second
day, when the violence of the sea loosening the ice, it was driven against the ships' sides
with such force that, had they not been strongly built, they would probably have been destroyed.
At this time, from the crow's nest, upwards of eighty-eight enormous icebergs were seen, besides
many smaller ones.  The vessels being at length freed, Lieutenant Parry came to the resolution
of abandoning the attempt to reach Lancaster Sound by a direct course, and instead steered
northward along the border of the great ice-field, in the hopes of finding open water farther
to the north.  He steered on that course until he reached latitude 73 degrees, when he resolved
upon making a determined push to the westward.

A favourable breeze springing up, the ships stood on among the detached floes, through which
they were warped by securing ice-anchors with hawsers to the more solid pieces ahead.  Before
they had made much progress, a thick fog came on, which prevented the open lanes ahead being
seen.  Still they continued to make way, sometimes dangerously beset by masses of ice; yet
by persevering efforts, they first got into one lane, then into another, till, the fog clearing,
they saw only one long floe separating them from the open sea.  The ice-saws were therefore
set to work, and with great labour cutting through the floe, they had the satisfaction of seeing
the shore clear of ice extending out before them.  They now steered for Lancaster Sound, and
on the 30th of July they gained its entrance.  As they sailed on, under a press of canvas,
westward, the mast-heads were crowded by officers and men, eagerly looking out to ascertain
if the supposed mountain barrier lay across their course.

The sound continued open, and it was calculated that the two shores were still thirteen leagues
apart, without the slightest appearance of land to the westward.

Again and again a report was received from aloft that all was clear ahead, and the explorers
began to flatter themselves that they had fairly entered the polar sea.  Several headlands
were passed, and wide openings to the north and south.  With a strong breeze from the eastward,
running on until midnight, they found themselves in latitude 83 degrees 12 minutes, nearly
one hundred and fifty miles from the entrance of the sound, which was fully fifty miles in
breadth.  The Griper, which had fallen astern, joining the Hecla, they together reached latitude
86 degrees 30 minutes, when two other inlets were discovered, and named Burnet and Stratton;
and then a bold headland, to which the name of Fellfoot was given.  A lengthened swell rolling
in from the north and west, gave them hopes that they had now really reached the wide expanse
of the polar basin, and that nothing would stop their progress to Icy Cape, the western boundary
of America.

While their hopes were at the highest land ahead was seen, but it proved only to be a small
island.  Very soon afterwards more land was seen, with a broad inlet, named Maxwell Bay.  Still
the sea stretched out uninterruptedly before them, but their hopes fell when, in a short time,
they saw to the south a line of continuous ice.

Shortly afterwards an open passage appeared, through which it was hoped the ships would make
their way westward.  On proceeding on, however, the explorers discovered, to their sorrow,
that this ice was joined to a compact and impenetrable body of floes, completely crossing the
channel. They had therefore to haul their wind and stand away from it, for fear of being caught
in the ice, along the edges of which a violent surf was beating.

As soon as the weather, which had been thick, became clear, an open sea, with a dark water
sky, was seen to the south.  In the hopes that this might lead to a passage, unencumbered with
ice, the commander steered for it, and shortly reached the mouth of a large inlet, ten leagues
broad, with no visible termination.  The names of Clarence and Seppings were given to the two
capes at its entrance.

Avoiding the ice on one side, the ships entered a broad open channel. The coast was dreary
in the extreme, while the irregularity of the compass showed that they were approaching the
magnetic pole, and increased the difficulties of navigation.  They had run one hundred and
twenty miles up this inlet, to which the name of Prince Regent was given, when the ice was
found extending across it.  Standing out of it, Parry steered across the channel, until he
came off another broad inlet, leading north, which was called Wellington Inlet.

The great channel through which they were passing was called Barrow Straits, in compliment
to the promoter of the expedition.  The wind again becoming favourable, the ship sailed triumphantly
along; three islands they successively passed being named Cornwallis, Bathurst, Byam Martin.
The compass had now become perfectly useless, and they judged that they had passed the magnetic
meridian at about 100 degrees west latitude, where it would have pointed due south instead
of north.  The cold also greatly increased, and thick fogs enveloped them.  They had also to
saw a passage through a thick floe.

Still forcing their way on, they discovered a large island, to which the name of Melville was
given.  Though the wind failed, by towing and warping, on the 4th of September they reached
the meridian of 110 degrees west from Greenwich, in latitude 74 degrees 44 minutes 20 seconds,
and became entitled to a reward of five thousand pounds, voted by Parliament to the first British
ship's company who should obtain that meridian.  To the bluff headland where the observation
was made the appropriate name of Bounty Cape was given.

Encouraged by their success, they continued their course, until it was crossed by an impenetrable
barrier of ice.  In vain for a fortnight they attempted to pierce it, until about the 20th
the young ice began to form rapidly on the surface, and Parry was convinced that a single hour's
calm would be sufficient to freeze up the ships in the midst of the sea. Reluctantly, therefore,
he was compelled to return, not without encountering great danger and difficulty.  On the 24th
he got off a harbour on the western side of Melville Island.  A large floe, two miles wide,
guarded its entrance.  To get through this floe, it was necessary to form a channel with the
ice-saws.  To do this two parallel lines were first marked with boarding-pikes on the ice,
at a distance from each other of somewhat more than the breadth of the Hecla.  Having cut along
these lines, large pieces were detached by cross-saws, and then again cut diagonally, in order
to be floated out.  Sometimes the boat's masts and sails were placed on them to hasten their
movements.  In two days the channel was cut, and the ships carried in and anchored in five
fathoms of water, about a cable's length from the beach.  At first the ice round them was every
morning cleared away, but it was soon found that the task was useless, and the two ships became
frozen up for the winter.  They were immediately unrigged and housed over, snow walls built
round them, and other plans adopted for keeping out the cold.

As they had ample provisions, preserved meat and concentrated soup were substituted for salt
beef, and beer and wine were served out instead of spirits.  They also had sour-krout, pickles,
and vinegar.  Every day the seamen were mustered and compelled to swallow a certain quantity
of lime-juice in the presence of their officers, while their gums and shins were examined to
detect the first appearance of scurvy.  The stove for baking was placed in a central position,
and by other arrangements a comfortable temperature was maintained in the cabin.  At a distance
from it, however, and in the bed-places, steam and even the breath soon turned into ice, which
had to be carefully scraped away.  To amuse the people, a newspaper was started, under the
editorship of Captain Sabine, and a school was established, at which many of the men, who had
never before handled a pen, learned to write well.  Plays were acted, a fresh one being performed
every fortnight, sometimes by the officers, and sometimes by the men.  The theatre was on the
quarter-deck, where, however, the cold was often as low as freezing-point, except close to
the stove,--a position eagerly sought for.

Lieutenant Beechy became stage manager.  The theatre received the name of the North Georgian,
and was opened on the 5th of November, with "Miss in her Teens."

It was by this means that Parry established a character for ready and happy expedients, accompanied
by a sound judgment, which kept alive the active powers of the mind, and prevented it from
falling into the worst of all conditions,--a state of morbid torpor.  His plan was completely
successful, and the crew, as well as the officers, were as happy as, under the circumstances,
could possibly be expected.

One of the first works carried out, after the ships had been made snug for the winter, was
the erection of an observatory, at a spot convenient for communication with the ships; and
a house was also built on the beach, for the reception of the clock and other instruments.
The walls of this were of double plank, with moss between, so that a high temperature could
be kept up in it, without difficulty, by a single stove.  To induce the men to take exercise,
the band played, and they tramped round the deck to the music.  While thus engaged, one day,
what was their dismay to see the house containing the valuable instruments on fire!  The crew,
without stopping to put on their extra warm clothing, hurried to the shore, pulled off the
roof with ropes, knocked down a part of the sides, and, by being thus able to throw in large
quantities of snow, succeeded in extinguishing the flames.  So bitter was the cold that, though
thus actively employed, the noses and cheeks of all the men were white by frostbites.  The
medical officers were compelled to run from one to the other and rub them with snow, in order
to restore animation; even thus it was found necessary to cut off several fingers of one poor
fellow, and sixteen others were added to the sick list. Hunting excursions were organised,
and reindeer, musk oxen, partridges, and ptarmigan were met with.  Some of the former were
killed.  No bears had been seen, until one day Captain Sabine's servant being at a distance
from the ship, a huge white monster started up and pursued him. The man ran as fast as his
legs could carry him, until he got on board, when the bear, coming close to the ship, was shot
at and wounded, but notwithstanding made its escape.  It was the only one seen during the long
stay of the ships on that desolate shore.  The animal tribes disappeared early in the winter.
On the 15th of September a herd of deer was seen lying down, except a large stag.  This, after
the rest had risen, guarded the herd in their flight, frequently going round them, sometimes
striking them with his horns to make them move faster.

On the same day the last covey of ptarmigan was met with.  What no one would have expected
to see in that frozen region--three specimens of a caterpillar were obtained one of which,
as an arctic curiosity, was brought to England.

For some months the crew retained excellent health, but early in January the gunner showed
symptoms which indicated scurvy.  The immediate cause appeared to be a collection of damp which
had formed round his bed-place.  At once all the anti-scorbutics were put into requisition,
such as lime-juice, pickles, spruce beer; a quantity of mustard and cress had also been raised
from mould placed over the stove-pipe, which rapidly grew.  So successful were these remedies
that, in nine days, the patient could walk about.  The only animals remaining were a pack of
wolves, which nightly surrounded the ships, although they cleverly avoided being captured.
A beautiful white fox, however, was caught and made a pet of, and became very much attached
to the commander, in whose cabin it took up its quarters.  Every day, indeed every hour, had
its allotted duties.  The officers, unless when there was wind, took walks on shore, but were
not permitted to go beyond two miles from the ship. After the ordinary duties of examining
the berths and bed-places, the crews had their suppers, and the officers went to their tea,
and after this the men were allowed to amuse themselves with games of various kinds, as well
as dancing and singing, until nine o'clock, when they had to turn in, and all lights were extinguished.
The officers employed their evenings in reading and writing, with an occasional game of chess,
or a tune on the flute or violin, until half-past ten.

For forty-eight days they were entirely deprived of a sight of the sun, the long-continued
night being lighted up only partially by the moon and occasionally by the aurora borealis.
Thus the months went by until the middle of May arrived, and the ptarmigan began to appear.
A considerable number were shot, their flesh having a beneficial effect on the crew.  Under
the snow was found an abundance of sorrel, a most potent antidote against scurvy.  Footsteps
of deer were seen, the animals evidently moving northwards.  As soon as the cold decreased,
the commander made an excursion across Melville Island, on which the vegetable productions
were dwarf willow, sorrel, moss, grass, and saxifrage.

Captain Sabine fell in with a ranunculus in full flower on the western side of the island,
evidently the most genial.  The crew had in the meantime been employed in cutting away the
ice from round the ships.

Soon after the commander's return, on the 15th of June, from his excursion, the ice in the
offing began to move with a loud grinding noise, and by the middle of July the thermometer
rose to 60 degrees, the highest point it reached in Melville Island.  By the 24th everything
was ready for sea, but still it seemed very probable that the two ships would be much longer
detained, while it was known that in eight or nine weeks from that period the navigable season
must come to a conclusion. Before the expiration of July the thermometer again fell, and the
pools of water froze over in the night, but there were channels through which the boats could
pass.  On the ist of August, however, the outer mass of ice suddenly broke up and floated out.
With eager haste the anchors were weighed, the sails spread, and the two ships, after being
shut up for ten whole months and a part of September, sailed out of Winter Harbour, and stood
round the shore of Melville Sound.  They were still not free from danger, as the masses of
ice were whirling about in all directions.  To avoid them the ships stood close into the shore,
but at length, off a point of land surrounded by hummocks of ice, some vast masses were seen
driving down upon the Hecla.  The Griper was in the same dangerous predicament, and there appeared
every probability that she would be nipped and destroyed.  Escaping these dangers, they pushed
their way westward until they arrived at very nearly the most western point of the island,
when all further progress was barred by the density of the ice.

The commander having consulted the officers of both ships, it was agreed that any further attempt
to proceed in that direction would be useless. It was also arranged that they should run back
along the edge of the ice, to look out for any opening which might lead them to the American
continent.  None, however, was found, and on the 31st of August they repassed Lancaster Sound.

They now, not without some risk of being frozen up after all, made their way to the southward,
and on the 28th of October came in sight of Fair Island and the Orkneys.

The commander reached London on the 3rd of November, 1820, after an absence of eighteen months.
Out of both ships' companies only one man, who had left home in ill health, died; the rest
returned in excellent health and strength.

Scarcely had Captain Parry returned than it was resolved to fit out another expedition without
delay.  For this purpose the Hecla was again commissioned, and as it was considered that vessels
of the same size were best calculated for the work, the Fury, of three hundred and seventy-seven
tons, was appointed to accompany her instead of the old Griper.

Several of the officers who had served in the former voyage were again employed, and Commander
Lyon was appointed to the command of the Hecla, while Commander Parry took charge of the Fiery.
Among the midshipmen were F.R.M. Crozier and James Clarke Ross, both of whom were arctic explorers
of note, the former ultimately destined to perish in the realms of ice.

The two ships were accompanied by the Nautilus transport, filled with stores and provisions,
to be transhipped on arriving at the ice.

Parry was directed to proceed towards or into Hudson's Straits.  He was then to penetrate to
the westward until he should reach Repulse Bay, or some other part of the shores of Hudson's
Bay to the north of Wager River, or some portion of the coast which he should feel convinced
to be a part of America.

The three ships sailed from the Nore on the 8th of May, 1821, but it was not until the 14th
of June that they came in sight of the first iceberg, or until the 2nd of July that they reached
Resolution Island, the valleys of which were filled with snow, while a dense fog hung over
the land, rendering the scene before them indescribably dreary and desolate. In a short time
the ships were surrounded by no less than six hundred and fifty-four icebergs, one of which
rose to two hundred and fifty-eight feet above the sea.  Among them were large floes, which
were turned round and round by the strong tides and currents rushing in from the ocean.  At
the same time, fearful as they are in appearance, they are less dangerous to approach than
those aground, against which a ship is liable to be carried with the whole force of the tide.

Captain Lyon, on one occasion, having fixed an anchor to a mass of ice with two strong hawsers,
both were carried away, and the anchor broken off as if it had been made of crockeryware. 
The ships were here separated to the distance of eleven or twelve miles, and became closely
beset by the ice, where they remained for eight or nine days.  During nineteen days only seventy
miles were made.  At length they reached, on the 21st, the Savage Islands.  Next afternoon
a loud shouting was heard, and shortly afterwards a large number of natives were seen paddling
their canoes through the lanes of open water, or occasionally drawing them over the ice.  These
were chiefly kayaks, rowed by a single man. There were also five oomiaks or women's boats,
of considerable size, formed of a framework of wood and whalebone, covered with deer-skins,
and having flat sides and bottom.  One of these contained no less than twenty-one women, boys,
and young children.  They were of a wild tribe, and evidently more debased than those of the
Greenland shore.  They laughed, and shouted, and skipped, and then commenced traffic with the
greatest eagerness, some of them stripping off the skins which formed their only covering,
until they were almost in a state of nudity; the women, however, always retaining their breeches.
They drove, as they fancied, a hard bargain; yet, being ignorant of the value of the skins,
they raised shouts of triumph when they exchanged them for a nail, saw, or razor.  Hideous
as were the old women, some of the children looked almost pretty, although, being thrown carelessly
into the bottom of the boat, they more resembled young wild animals than human beings.  The
men were especially addicted to practical jokes.  One of them, getting behind a sailor, shouted
lustily in his ear, then gave him a hearty box on the other.  Captain Parry formed a very unfavourable
opinion of the moral character of these natives, who seemed to have acquired, by an annual
intercourse with our ships for nearly a hundred years, many of the vices of civilisation, without
having imbibed any of the virtues or refinements which adorn it.  Notwithstanding all obstructions,
the expedition, early in August, came in view of Southampton Island, at the entrance of Fox's
Channel, and from thence forced its way to Repulse Bay, through which it was supposed that
a passage westward existed; but, after it had been thoroughly explored, Captain Parry proved
that the land round it was continuous.  The appearance of the land was not altogether uninviting.
It rose to seven or eight hundred feet, and there was the usual vegetation found in the arctic
regions.  Reindeer and hares were plentiful, as were ducks and other birds.

Getting out of Repulse Bay, Captain Parry commenced a career of discovery along an unknown
coast.  An inlet was discovered, on which the name of Gore was bestowed.  At the mouth of the
opening the valleys were richly clad with grass and mosses.  The birds were singing, the butterflies
and other insects displaying the most gaudy tints; so that the seamen might have fancied themselves
in some happier clime, had not the mighty piles of ice in the frozen strait told a different tale.

While the ships were at anchor, hunting parties were sent out, and the game laws of the preceding
year were strictly enforced, by which every beast and bird was to be given up for the general
good, the capturer only retaining the head and legs.  The head, however, was sometimes greatly
extended, so as to include several joints of the back-bone.  At length the explorers found
themselves among a complete labyrinth of islands, amidst which strong currents set in various
directions, while fogs and drift ice made navigation perilous in the extreme.  Successive masses
assailed the Fury.  At one time her anchor was dragged along with a grinding noise, two flukes
being broken off.  She was afterwards carried forward by a violent stream amid thick mist,
while it was found impossible to steer her in any direction.

At length the ships emerged into the open sea, but a strong northerly gale compelled them to
run before it, when, on the 6th of August, they found themselves close to the spot where they
had been on the 3rd of September.  Still Captain Parry persevered, examining every opening,
in the hopes that each might prove a passage into the polar ocean.

Lyon and Hoppner Inlets were surveyed.  When near the shore, a number of Esquimaux came off
to obtain some iron tools.  The behaviour of one of the fair sex created considerable surprise.
She had sold one boot, but obstinately retained the other.  At length the suspicions of the
seamen being aroused, she was seized and the buskin pulled off, when it proved to be a receptacle
of stolen treasure.  Besides other articles, it contained a pewter plate and a couple of spoons.

The end of September was now approaching.  The summer was far from genial, and now, at any
moment, the icy hand of winter might grasp the ships.  Pancake ice began to form on the surface
of the ocean.  As the ships rolled from side to side, the ice clung to them in vast masses,
and the various pieces which were tossing in the sea around became cemented into one great
field, which threatened every moment to bear down upon them and dash them to pieces.

As it was important, without delay, to secure the ships for the winter, a small island lying
off the northern point of the entrance into Lyon Inlet was fixed on.  The distance was about
half a mile, but the soft state of the pancake ice rendered the task not a very laborious one,
though often dangerous, as it bent like leather beneath the feet of the seamen as they were
working.  At length it was accomplished, and the two ships were frozen in for another winter.

As there was no time to be lost, arrangements were at once made for passing it comfortably.
Both ships were more thoroughly heated than had been the case on the previous voyage.  They
were both more amply provisioned, and anti-scorbutics against scurvy had been more bountifully
supplied.

To amuse them, the theatre was opened on the 9th of November.  The play of "The Rivals" being
chosen, the two captains appeared as Sir Anthony and Captain Absolute.

A school was also established, and it was interesting to observe the zeal with which the hardy
tars applied themselves to their books.

Sixteen of the men who had before been unable to form a letter could by Christinas write very
well.  That day was passed with the usual festivities, the seamen being amply regaled with
fresh beef, cranberry pies, and grog, when they drank, with three hearty cheers, the health
of each officer in succession.  The shortest day was scarcely observed; indeed, the sun did
not entirely leave them.

A few hares were caught, with a purely white covering, which resembled swans'-down rather than
hair, and about a hundred white foxes were snared in the nets.  At first they were perfectly
ungovernable, but in a short time the young ones threw off their timidity, and became tame.

The sky was frequently brilliantly lighted by the aurora borealis. The light had a tendency
to form an irregular arch, which in calm weather was very distinct. Sometimes long streams
of light were spread out with inconceivable swiftness.  No rule could be traced in the movement
of the light parcels which are called the "merry dancers."  The sun and moon were often surrounded
with haloes and concentric circles of vapour, tinted with the brightest hues of the rainbow.
Parhelia, or mock suns, frequently shone in different quarters of the firmament.  Still the
life the explorers were compelled to lead was becoming very monotonous, when, on the morning
of the ist of February, a number of figures were seen in the distance, moving over the ice.
The spy-glasses were turned towards them, and they were pronounced to be Esquimaux.

As it was important to establish friendly relations with these people, the two commanders,
attended by a few men, proceeded towards them, walking in file behind each other, that they
might cause no alarm.  As the natives approached, they formed themselves into a line of twenty-one;
then they advanced slowly, until, making a full stop, they saluted the English by the usual
movement of beating their breasts. They were well clothed in rich deer-skins.  On coming to
the ships they immediately began to strip; and the females, finding that they could obtain
knives, nails, and needles for their dresses, pulled them off, when it was discovered that
they had others of a similar character beneath the outer ones.

A visit to their village, at their invitation, was paid; but at first no one could discover
their habitations.  They, however, led the way to a hill in the snow, through which they crept,
on hands and knees, along a winding passage of considerable length, until they reached a little
hall with a dome-shaped roof, the doors of which opened into three apartments, each occupied
by a separate family.  This curious structure was tenanted by sixty-four men, women, and children.
It was formed entirely of slabs of snow, about two feet long and half a foot thick. On the
outside a series of cupolas rose about seven feet above the ground, and were sixteen feet in
diameter.  A plate of ice in the roof served as a window.

When first seen the village appeared like a cluster of hillocks among the snow; but successive
falls filled up the intervening spaces, and converted it into one smooth surface, so that the
boys and dogs were seen sporting over the roof.  In each room, suspended from the roof, a lamp
was burning, with a long wick formed from a species of moss, the oil being the produce of the
seal or walrus.  This lamp served at once for light, heat, and cooking.

A few hours had been sufficient to put up the village.  The natives were as desirous of pleasing
as they were ready to be pleased, and a favourable impression was thus made at the first interview,
which was not diminished during a constant intercourse of between three and four months.  They
were strictly honest, and frequently returned articles which had been dropped by accident.

During a visit to the Hecla, the fiddler having struck up a tune, these merry people danced
with the seamen for an hour, and then returned in high glee to their huts.  They were highly
delighted with the tones of the organ, as with the songs of the seamen and music of every description.
They were very ingenious in employing such materials as they had at their disposal.  A sledge
being required to carry a lad to some distance, one of them set to work, and in a short time
cut out of ice a serviceable little sledge, hollowed like a bowl, and smoothly rounded at the
bottom.  The thong to which the dogs were secured was fixed to a groove cut round its upper
edge.  Among the women was one named Iliglink, the mother of a lad called Toolooak, who had
frequently come on board.  She was a superior person, of great natural talent.  Her voice was
soft; she had an excellent ear for music, and a great fondness for singing.  It was somewhat
difficult, indeed, when she once began, to stop her.  She made beautiful models of canoes,
sledges, and other articles; but she showed her superior intelligence by the readiness with
which she communicated her knowledge of the geographical outline of the sea-coast of the country
and of the islands.  Sheet after sheet was tacked on until she had completely lost sight of
Winter Island, at the other end of the table.  She afterwards drew, on a smaller scale, with
wonderful accuracy, a chart embracing a much wider extent of coast. With intense interest it
was found that she drew the extreme northern boundary of America, or rather its north-east
extremity, round which Captain Parry had received instructions to proceed, if possible.

The armourer's forge especially attracted her attention, and she expressed great astonishment
at seeing two pieces of iron welded together.  She was rather spoiled, however, by the attention
paid her, and seemed to claim as a right her privilege of coming on board whenever she pleased.

Early in April some of the tribe deserted their habitations, proceeding to the westward in
search of food, and at the end of May the whole party announced that they were about to migrate
to the northward.  On receiving what they considered the most valuable presents from the commander,
the women broke into such immoderate fits of laughter as to be almost hysterical, finishing
by bursting into tears.

The men were thankful, but less noisy in expressing their satisfaction. As these good-humoured
and very cheerful people took their departure, they greeted the voyagers with three cheers,
in true English style.

While preparations were being made for sailing three deaths occurred, two on board the Fury,
and one seaman of the Hecla.

On the 2nd of July the ships moved out of their winter quarters, but they did not put to sea
until the 8th.  They were almost immediately exposed to most terrific danger, being driven
along the ice at a furious rate, frequently almost nipped by it.  At one time the Hecla's stern
was lifted more than five feet out of the water, and her rudder unslung by a violent jerk.
Had another floe backed the one which lifted her, the ship must inevitably have turned over
or parted amidships. Providentially she righted, and drove several miles to the southward before
her rudder could be again slung.  The Fury was exposed to almost equal peril of destruction.
By long and unremitting perseverance, and by taking advantage of every opening and breeze of
wind, the ships moved to the northward as far as latitude 67 degrees 18 minutes, to the mouth
of a fresh water river.  The boats were lowered, and parties landed and proceeded up the banks
of the river, where, at about two and a quarter miles from the entrance, they found a fine
waterfall, the scenery being romantic and beautiful in the extreme.  It was named Barrow, after
the Secretary of the Admiralty.

On the 14th of July the ships reached the island of Amitiske, which by Iliglink's chart appeared
near the strait which they had reason to believe would conduct them to the polar sea.  Here
they saw an enormous herd of walruses, lying piled up over each other on the loose drift ice.
A boat's crew from each ship was sent to attack them, but the animals-- some with their cubs
on their backs,--making a most determined resistance, kept their assailants at bay.  One of
them, rushing forward, tore the planks of a boat in several places, and very nearly sank her.
Three only were killed.

Sailing on, a strait was seen stretching westward in long perspective; but the hopes of the
explorers were soon disappointed, when the ice was discovered extending in one unbroken line
across it, from shore to shore.

This passage was named Fury and Hecla Strait.  Hoping ultimately, however, to force the ships
through, Parry made an expedition along the surface of the strait, and from an elevation saw
a wide passage opening out to the west, inducing him to believe that he saw before him the
polar sea.  Scarcely, however, had he returned when the ice began to break in rents and fissures,
and, soon entirely disappearing, the vessels floated in open water.  With a brisk breeze he
stood on, but at the end of five days it was announced from the crow's nest that ice in a continuous
field occupied the whole breadth of the channel.  On examining it, however, it was found to
be rotten, and the captain, therefore, determined to try and force the ships through it.  With
all canvas set, they had proceeded three or four hundred yards, when they stuck, and, in spite
of all their efforts, were unable to make the slightest advance during the remainder of the
season.  With the greatest difficulty they were at length extricated, and proceeded to the
neighbouring harbour of Igloolik, into which, by the usual operation of sawing, they made their
way.  Here they prepared to spend another winter.  The two ships were at some distance from
each other, though not sufficiently so to prevent constant intercourse.  They were prevented,
however, from continuing their theatrical entertainments, but schools were carried on as industriously
as before.  A wall of snow, twelve feet high, was built round the Fury, at a distance of twenty
yards from her, forming a large square, like that of a farmyard, by which not only was the
snow-drift kept out, but a good walk, sheltered from every wind, was afforded.  Before long
the Esquimaux appeared, among whom were several of their old friends; but Iliglink did not
arrive, nor was any reason given for her not coming.  The winter was less pleasantly spent
than the former, while some slight cases of scurvy appeared, arising from the want of fresh
anti-scorbutic plants.  There was a distance of four or five miles between the ships and the
sea, yet notwithstanding, Captain Parry determined to commence the laborious task of sawing
his way through it.

By the 6th of August, about four hundred yards of ice were sawn through, leaving a broad canal,
eleven hundred yards in length.  By this and the disruption of the floe on the 8th of August,
the Fury floated once more in open water, and was followed on the 12th by the Hecla.  Captain
Lyon fully agreed with this, and the ships, therefore, stood out eastward.  The current rapidly
hurried them along to the southward, their drift being twenty-one miles in twenty-four hours,
though closely beset, without a single pool of water in sight the whole time.  As they approached
a headland, they were whirled round it at the rate of two or three knots an hour, and on passing
Barrow River were drifted nine or ten miles off land by the current setting out of it.

On the 17th of September, a strong westerly breeze clearing them from the ice, enabled them
to shape their course for Trinity Islands in a perfectly open sea, from whence they ran down
Hudson's Straits, without meeting with any obstruction.  The favourable wind still continued,
and on the 10th of October they anchored in Brassa Sound, off Lerwick, where they enjoyed their
first sight of civilised man, after an absence of seven and twenty months.

They were received by the people of Lerwick in the warmest manner.  The bells were set ringing,
the town was illuminated, and people flocked in from all parts of the country, to express their
joy at their unexpected return.

On the 18th Captain Parry arrived at the Admiralty, and the ships were paid off on the 16th
of November.

The idea being entertained that the passage westward into the Pacific might be made through
Prince Regent's Inlet, Captain Parry was appointed to the command of another expedition for
the purpose of ascertaining if this could be done.  The Hecla was re-commissioned, he taking
command of her, while Commander Hoppner was appointed to the Fury, with Horatio Thomas Austin
and James Clark Ross as his lieutenants.  The Hecla carried sixty-two and the Fury sixty persons.

The ships sailed from the Nore on the 19th of May, 1824, accompanied by the William Harris
transport.  Captain Parry received his instructions to make the best of his way to Davis Straits,
to cross over to Lancaster Sound, and, proceeding through Barrow Straits, endeavour to make
through Prince Regent's Inlet a passage into the sea which bounds the American continent on
its northern coast, and thence westward to the Pacific.  At the Danish settlement of Lievely
the ships received their stores from the William Harris, which returned home.  On leaving the
harbour, the Hecla struck on a sunken rock, but without receiving much damage.  On the 17th
of July the ice began to close round the ships, and from that time forward the crews were constantly
employed in warping or sawing through the frozen mass.  On several occasions the Hecla received
awkward nips, and it was not until the 9th of September that they got into open water.  On
the 10th of September they entered Lancaster Sound, and found it free from ice; but on the
13th they had the mortification of perceiving the sea ahead covered with young ice, through
which they made their way until they came to the entrance of Port Bowen, into which the ships
were warped by the ist of October, and here took up their winter station.  The usual preparations
for passing that dreary season were made.  Numerous whales were seen off the coast, which would
have afforded a rich harvest to a whaler.

Parry's first care was to find occupation and diversion for the seamen. As many of their former
amusements were worn threadbare, he proposed a masquerade, in which officers and men alike
took part.  Admirably dressed characters of various descriptions made their appearance, and
were supported with a degree of spirit and humour which would not have discredited a more refined
assembly.  Mr Hooper, purser of the Hecla, superintended the school, aided by other officers.
The progress of the men was surprisingly great.  He also attended to the cultivation of that
religious feeling which so essentially improves the character of seamen, by furnishing the
highest motives for increased attention to their other duties.  The officers also found full
employment in the various observations to which their attention was directed.  An expedition
was also made to the eastward, under Commander Hoppner.  The travelling along the shore was
so good that they were enabled to extend their journeys far beyond the points intended.  On
returning, Lieutenant Ross brought the welcome intelligence that the sea was perfectly open
at a distance of twenty-two miles northward of Port Bowen.  On the 12th of July the ice began
to break up, and by the 20th, owing to the sudden separation of the floe, the ships got free.
They first crossed over to the western shore of Prince Regent's Inlet, then proceeded southward,
close in with the land, having alternately open water and floating ice, to which they had occasionally
to make fast.  Before long, however, the ice was observed to be in rapid motion towards the
shore.  Both ships were in extreme danger.  The cliffs next the sea, four or five hundred feet
in perpendicular height, were constantly breaking down, and the ships lay so close in shore
as to be almost within range of some of these falling masses.  The following day the Hecla
managed to get to a greater distance; but the Fury remained where she was, and on the 31st
a hard gale brought the ice closer and closer, until it pressed with very considerable violence
on both ships, though mostly on the Fury, which lay in a very exposed position.  Shortly afterwards
the Fury was forced on the ground, where she lay, but was got off again at high water.  A broad
channel appearing and a fresh breeze springing up, an attempt was made to reach the water;
but the ice came bodily in upon the ships, which were instantly beset in such a manner as to
be literally helpless and unmanageable.

Thus they were carried southward, when the Hecla, driving close in shore, struck the ground
several times, and remained immovable.  The Fury was seen driving past, narrowly escaping being
forced on board her.  She was driven about three hundred yards, powerfully pressed by the ice,
until she became so severely nipped and strained as to leak a good deal, when she was again
forced ashore.  Both ships, however, got off at high water, but on the 2nd of August the Fury
was again driven on the beach, and the Hecla narrowly escaped.  Captain Parry went on board
the former vessel, and found four pumps going, and Commander Hoppner and his men almost exhausted
with the incessant labours of the last eight and forty hours.  They were now looking out for
a spot where the Fury might be hove down, when again the ice drove down upon them. Once more
freed, however, the ships proceeded to a place where there were three bergs, at which it was
determined to heave down the Fury. The formation of a basin was at once commenced, and completed
by the 16th of August, and on the 18th all the Fury's stores, provisions, and other articles,
were landed, and she was hove down.  Scarcely, however, had this been done when a gale of wind
came on, which destroyed the bergs, and made it necessary to tow both the ships away from the
land. The Fury was again reloaded, but on the 21st was once more driven on shore.  It was now
seen that any attempt to carry her to a place of safety, even should she be got off, would
be hopeless and productive of extreme risk to the remaining ship, and that an absolute necessity
existed for abandoning her.  Her crew, with such stores as were required, were transferred
to the Hecla, and every effort was made to carry the surviving ship into clear water.

Five and twenty days of the time when navigation was practicable had been lost.  The Hecla
was at length worked out of Prince Regent's Inlet, and arrived safely at Melville Harbour,
where the necessary repairs were effected for enabling her to cross the Atlantic.

Weighing anchor on the 1st of September, the Hecla entered Barrow Strait, where the sea was
found perfectly open, and she was thus enabled to bear away to the eastward.  In crossing Lancaster
Sound more than the usual quantity of icebergs were seen.  For ten miles she had only to make
one tack, when she reached the margin of the ice, and got on its eastern side into the open
sea.  On the 10th of October the Orkney Islands were sighted, and on the 12th Captain Parry
landed at Peterhead.

This last voyage to discover the north-west passage, though less successful than the former
ones, equally exhibited the courage, perseverance, and hardihood which had before distinguished
the officers and crews employed; while we cannot help contrasting the admirable discipline
maintained with the sad want of it displayed in so many of the voyages described in the preceding
pages.

In 1827 Captain Parry commanded an expedition, which was fitted out in the hopes of reaching
the north pole by way of Spitzbergen, when, accompanied by Captain Ross, he performed a long
and hazardous journey over the ice; but, after travelling six hundred miles, it was found that
they had only made good, owing to the drift of the ice, one hundred and seventy miles.

As a reward for his laborious services, he received the honour of knighthood, and Admiral Sir
Edward Parry will ever be remembered as one of the bravest, most sagacious, and enterprising
officers who have done honour to the British Navy.

The voyages of Sir John Franklin will now occupy us in succession to the heroic Parry.

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

SIR JOHN FRANKLIN'S EXPEDITIONS.

Birth and youthful career of Franklin--His service at sea--Appointed to survey the Coppermine
River--His expedition--His second expedition to the Arctic regions--Made Governor of Tasmania--His
return--The last Franklin expedition.

Sir John Franklin, whose Arctic expeditions and their consequences will form the subject of
this chapter, was born at Spilsby, in Lincolnshire, on the 16th of April, 1786.  He was the
youngest son of most respectable parents and intended for the Church, but as he preferred the
sea service, his father yielded, and got him appointed a middy at fourteen years of age.  Young
Franklin soon saw some service.  He was present at Copenhagen in 1801, and was appointed to
the Investigator, which, under his cousin Captain Flinders, explored the Australian coast.
The Investigator went to grief, and when the crew were transferred to the Porpoise she was
wrecked, the ship's company and officers living on a sandbank for fifty days.  After being
taken off, Franklin was carried to Canton, and when he eventually reached England he was appointed
to the Bellerophon, and was present at the battle of Trafalgar, where he was signal midshipman,
and behaved splendidly.

For several years he served in the Bedford, and was engaged and wounded at New Orleans.  In
1818 he was put in command of the Trent to find an Arctic passage to India, and in this Captain
Buchan, in the Dorothea, took command.  But the latter vessel being damaged, the expedition
returned to England, though Franklin wished to proceed alone.

After this, his reputation having been well established, not only as a thorough seaman but
as a man of science, he was appointed to the expedition to cross the continent from Hudson's
Bay to the Coppermine, and explore the coast eastward.

We will now, as briefly as possible, give the interesting narrative of Franklin's Arctic expeditions.

While Sir Edward Parry, whose expedition we have already detailed, was endeavouring to cross
the Polar Sea westwards, Lieutenant John Franklin was commissioned by the Admiralty to ascertain
the sources of the Coppermine River.  At the same time Doctor Richardson and Messrs. Hood and
Back were also nominated, with two English sailors, to accompany him.  This small party embarked
on board the Hudson Bay Company's vessel Prince of Wales on the 23rd of May, 1819, and after
some perils they arrived off York Factory, on the Hudson Bay shore, in August of the same year.

On the 9th of September the party commenced their exploration, and reached Cumberland House
on the 22nd of October.  Franklin, notwithstanding the advanced period of the year, determined
to push on, and after a delay he set out, accompanied only by Lieutenant Back, on the 18th
of January, 1820.  Doctor (afterwards Sir John) Richardson and Mr Hood were to bring up the
baggage and more stores in the early spring.  The enterprising pair then journeyed more than
eight hundred miles in the terrible Arctic winter, and reached Fort Chepeywan on the 26th of
March following.

Meanwhile Doctor Richardson and Mr Hood remained at Cumberland House engaged in congenial pursuits
and studying the Cree Indians, with other natural history subjects.  The notes they give concerning
the manners and customs of the Indians are extremely interesting, but are by this time pretty
well known.  Their dexterity in hunting and hawking are particularly commended, and much useful
information concerning the fauna of the district was collected by Doctor Richardson and his
companion.

When spring began to appear Doctor Richardson and his friend, with the Indian hunters, set
out to join Franklin, and the "misery"--there is no other name for it--which the party endured,
not from cold but from the mosquitoes, must be read about in detail to be even partially appreciated.
This is a fearful plague of the northern regions just as Nature is beginning to clothe herself
anew in green, and the white mantle of winter has disappeared in those places where snow is
not perpetual.

On the 18th of July, 1820, the whole party was assembled at Fort Chepeywan, and they set out
together, so as to reach the mouth of the Coppermine in time to establish winter quarters for
the next cold season.  But tremendous difficulties beset them--lakes and rivers had to be crossed,
portages had to be made, as rapids had to be avoided, and shallows had to be circumvented.
Thus it was the middle of August again ere they reached a place whence further progress was
impossible that season.  The signs of approaching winter could not be disregarded: a house
was constructed as a winter residence, and called "Fort Enterprise."

Their objective point was still many, many miles away, and those miles they could not traverse
with their boats and stores.  So, after a hurried peep at the head of the river, they made
ready to winter, and with that view laid in a stock of provisions.  This consisted chiefly
of pemmican, which is frozen or dried reindeer-flesh kneaded with the fat into a kind of paste.
Fish was added to this, but as people came along--natives and their families, who "made for"
shelter as quickly as possible--the stock was not enough.  Ammunition gave out, many necessary
stores had not come up, and at length Mr--afterwards Admiral Sir George--Back determined to
return, and bring up the required stores.

After a lapse of five months this intrepid young officer returned to Franklin.  This was indeed
intrepidity, but he knew his friends were waiting for him, and that without some such self-sacrifice
they could not have remained in their winter quarters, where, during Mr Back's absence, they
suffered greatly from the climate.

The young voyager brought back with him two interpreters, whose names in English were "Stomach"
and "Ear," but who were called Augustus and Junius, in preference to the British equivalents
of their baptismal names.  During the winter all played games and wrote out their journals--a
favourite occupation with all travellers in their forced idleness.  They subsisted on reindeer
meat without vegetables, and drank tea or chocolate.  The Indians were very kind and friendly
all the time. Many instances are related of their good-nature and simplicity.

The 14th of June had come before the travellers considered the icy river navigable.  Some difficulties
occurred with the hunters as to the procuring of provisions by the way, but when all had been
arranged comfortably, a start was made, and the rocky river attempted.

The party arrived at the Copper hills, where the ore was searched for, and then the expedition
continued its course, though the Indians would not go on after a while for fear of meeting
the Esquimaux; and even the Canadian hunters wanted to go back.  The sea was reached on the
18th of July, and the party paddled their own canoes towards the east.  For more than five
hundred miles they coasted, until, instead of finding themselves in the Arctic Ocean, they
were only in an immense bay.  So they turned back and went up Hood's River, with the intention
to go as far as possible by water, and then strike overland to Fort Enterprise again.

This was a hazardous attempt, but it was their only chance.  They were soon stopped by a waterfall,
and then the pilgrimage began.  The large canoes were made into two smaller ones, for the crossing
of rivers and lakes, and, with only provisions for two days, they started overland.

In three days they encountered quite a wintry climate, and from the 5th to 26th of September
they had to march through snow and live on mosses, without any guide, or observation, to show
the way, and many days they had no food at all.  Frozen, and eventually almost in despair,
the Canadians grew impatient.  One canoe was disabled, the other lost, and, at length, when
they all reached the Coppermine River, they had no means of crossing it.

In this emergency, Doctor Richardson volunteered to swim the hundred and thirty yards of icy
water (38 degrees), and carry a line over.  He made the attempt, and had almost succeeded when
the cold overcame him, and he was dragged back nearly drowned.  He was with much difficulty
restored to animation.  A kind of basket was then rigged up, and in it Saint Germain, an interpreter,
paddled over, carrying the line.  He managed to reach the opposite bank, and with no more than
a wetting the rest all crossed in safety after him.

This was in the beginning of October, and winter was upon them.  So Franklin sent on some of
the men with Mr Back to find the Indians near Fort Enterprise, and the rest followed.  But
the lichens disagreed with two men, and though Doctor Richardson went back and endeavoured
to cure them and bring them along, he was obliged to abandon them to die in their tracks. 
Things looked so serious that Richardson and Hood pluckily proposed to remain at the first
convenient halting-place with the weaker brethren, and let Franklin push on to the fort, and
send back help and food.  This was agreed to.  Franklin went on, but Hepburn, the English sailor,
volunteered to remain with Richardson.  This parting took place on the 7th of October, twenty-four
miles from the fort.  Of the eight men who left with Franklin, four were taken ill and returned
to Doctor Richardson, but only one man, the Iroquois Michel, reached the tent in rear.

On the 11th Franklin, with four men, reached the fort, and found it completely empty and deserted--no
food, no friends, nothing!  After a while a note was found from Mr Back saying he had gone
after the Indians, but he was unsuccessful in finding them.  Others were sent afterwards, and
so for eighteen days Franklin lived miserably on the skins, bones, and remains of the reindeer
which had been eaten the previous winter!

On the 29th of October Richardson and Hepburn came in--walking skeletons.  Where was poor Hood?
Where were the others?  A tragic tale had to be told by Doctor Richardson.  Here is the account
of what happened.

For two days the party left by Franklin had no food.  Michel then brought a little game.  Then
another day and no food, and Mr Hood was very ill.  Next day the Iroquois carried home some
"wolf-meat," but Richardson believes it was a part of the body of one of the wanderers who
had been killed by the Iroquois.  This man now became very ill-natured and got worse and worse
in his conduct, refusing to supply his companions with food or to share what he had procured.
One day after being remonstrated with while Doctor Richardson and Hepburn were absent from
the tent, this wretch shot Hood in the back, and Michel was so evidently the murderer that
afterwards, in self-defence, Richardson shot him unexpectedly as he was coming to the fort.
Hepburn had noticed certain acts which left no doubt of Michel's intention to murder his companions,
and Richardson anticipated the murderer's aim.

After this Richardson, emaciated and half dead, with Hepburn a perfect skeleton, found Franklin
as bad as themselves.  Utterly unable to find any food they gnawed skins and bones.  They were
on the point of death when on the 7th of November assistance came.  Three Indians sent by Back
appeared with food.  They afforded material assistance, and finally conducted the remainder
of the party to the next fort.  The survivors reached York Factory in July, 1822, having been
absent from it just three years.

Many Arctic expeditions were sent out after this for the north-west exploration.  Commander
Lyon, in the Hecla, has been already mentioned.  We shall hear of the Blossom in connection
with Sir John Franklin.  The Victory, under Captain John Ross and Lieutenant Ross, Captain
Back in the Terror and in boats, the Hudson Bay Company's employes in 1836-39, and Doctor John
Rae, 1846-47, all added their "notable voyages" to the record of Arctic expeditions, and were
we to detail them there would be a sameness in the narratives, though the adventurous spirit
breathed through them all.  But later on we will mention Doctor Kane's expedition.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We will at present confine ourselves to Sir John Franklin's expeditions undertaken in 1825-27
and 1845-50, with the search made for him by various vessels.

Not contented with what had been done, and was being done, by Parry and others in the North,
Franklin undertook to conduct a second expedition, which Captain Beachey was appointed to meet
by going round Cape Horn, and through Behring's Strait to the eastward, so as to unite with
Franklin, who hoped to come overland.  Four expeditions, including these, were fitted out;
but we have already seen what Parry did. Captain Lyon's attempt to survey the coast failed;
so we will follow Franklin in his second venture.

The explorer was again accompanied by Doctor Richardson and Lieutenant Back; Mr Kendall and
Mr Drummond also went as members of the "staff." Their object was to descend the Mackenzie
River to the sea.  There it was determined the party should divide, one portion going eastward,
the other westward to Behring's Strait.

The whole expedition reached Fort Chepeywan once again in July, 1825, and pressed onto the
Great Bear Lake; then, following the river which runs out of it to the Mackenzie River, they
took up winter quarters; but, as there was still time to explore a little, Franklin descended
the Mackenzie to the sea, and returned to the Fort (Franklin) before the severity of winter
had overtaken him.

Winter passed over in the usual manner, and in June, 1826, it was judged that an advance might
safely be made.  On the 15th June all were ready. Two parties were formed.  Franklin and Lieutenant
Back, with fourteen men, were to go westward in the Reliance and Lion (boats); Doctor Richardson
and Mr Kendall, with the Dolphin and Unicorn, were to proceed eastward.  They all descended
the Mackenzie together, and when they reached the mouth they separated as agreed on.  Franklin's
party proceeded westward, and met with some opposition from the Esquimaux, who tried to steal
the stores and other things.

Eventually the explorers got free, and sailed on in continually thick, foggy weather.  It was
the middle of August before the boats reached the half-way point between the Mackenzie and
the Cape.  After a careful consideration of the circumstances, and being ignorant of the vicinity--
comparatively speaking--of Captain Beachey in the Blossom, which had been directed to unite
with him, Franklin made up his mind to return, as the winter was already beginning to manifest
its approach.

Beachey was at that time actually expecting Captain Franklin.  Only one hundred and forty-six
miles intervened between them, and the brave explorer afterwards declared that had he known
of the Blossom being so near he would have risked the meeting.  But he had no reason to think
that Beachey had got nearer than Kotzebue Sound, whereas a party from the Blossom had even
ventured round Icy Cape in the search for Franklin.

The result was that Franklin returned, encountering severe weather, and on the 21st of September
again gained the shelter of Fort Franklin. Beachey, meanwhile, waited in Kotzebue Sound as
long as he dared, and then retreated to Petropavlovok.  The extent of Franklin's survey had
extended over three hundred and seventy-four miles of dreary coast without discovering a single
harbour for vessels.  He penetrated as far as latitude 70 degrees 24 minutes, and longitude
149 degrees 37 minutes West.

Doctor Richardson's party made some very valuable observations in his survey of five hundred
miles--a much more pleasant journey than Franklin's.  In the account of the expedition are
many interesting details of Esquimaux life.  Doctor Richardson and his companions reached winter
quarters in safety on the Great Bear Lake.  In 1827 Captain Beachey again made his way up to
Kotzebue Sound, in the expectation of encountering Franklin, but, of course, did not meet him.
These three parties traced the coast down to Return Reef westward, from the Mackenzie eastward
to Cape Kensurstern, and circumnavigated the Great Bear Lake, this, "if continued eastward,
would have solved the North-West Passage."

Before considering the several Arctic expeditions which made attempts to discover the desired
North-West Passage, we will speak of Sir John Franklin's third and last expedition to the Icy
Regions.  In the year 1829, Captain Franklin had been created a Knight, and received the degree
of D.C.L. at Oxford.  In 1830 he commanded the Rainbow in the Mediterranean, which ship was
known as "Franklin's Paradise," so well did he treat his crew.  In the year 1836, he was appointed
Governor of Van Dieman's Land (Tasmania), and in that colony he remained until 1843, where
he was, and is still, gratefully remembered.  He returned to England in consequence, it is
said, of some misunderstanding with the Colonial Office, and in 1845 he claimed the command
of the new expedition.

THE LAST VOYAGE OF FRANKLIN.

In 1844 public attention was again directed to the discovery of the North-West Passage.  The
expedition under Sir James Ross, in the Erebus and Terror, to the South Polar regions had reopened
the Arctic question.  The vessels had been proved sound; they were available for a new advance.
Sir John Franklin had returned from Tasmania, and when the Admiralty had decided to send out
an expedition, he laid claim to the post of commander of it.

It was not until May, 1845, that the Erebus and Terror, fitted with auxiliary screws, were
ready to go.  A store-vessel accompanied them as far as Disco, on the Greenland coast, and
there the two ships entered Baffin's Bay.  Along the coast and into the ice they go, meeting
it as it is making its slow way to the south.  At length the ships are completely surrounded,
and anchored to the snowy floes which extend in all directions.

By the end of July they have managed to press on out of the track of all the whaling vessels,
and make for Lancaster Sound, westward.  The desolate coast of North Devon is skirted, and
subsequently Beachey Island is reached.  From hence they move northward again, and to Wellington
Channel, only to be turned back again by the ice.

But the signs of coming winter made it absolutely necessary that some sheltered place should
be found in which the long dreary months might be passed.  Day after day the Erebus and Terror
sought such a resting-place, and found none.  Any advance was now out of the question; the
"massing" ice prevented that, and threatened them daily.  At length it was decided to run for
shelter to Beachey Island, and in Erebus and Terror Bay the expedition was made as snug as
possible for the winter. The daily record of the passed months tells us of a continual struggle
with ice and snow; checks and renewed efforts; storm-tossed seas, and icebergs innumerable.

At Beachey Island the vessels remained after their exploration of nearly three hundred miles
of new ground.  Plans, no doubt, were made for the following year, while the cold death-like
hand of winter came and grasped everything in its iron grip.  The sun, of course, left the
ships, and after climbing the hills to see the last of him, the crews went back in darkness
to the vessels.  How the crews amused themselves during the winter we can imagine, and we find
plenty of testimony to the games, the acting, the reading, and study, in which time was passed.
The great thing to be aimed at was occupation--action.  Stagnation meant death.

Three men died during the winter, and when the sun reappeared, when the creeks in the ice warned
the crews that the time of release was at hand, a good and anxious look-out was kept.  At length
the ice-floes moved away, and after a while the channel was cut out for the release of the
Erebus and Terror.  The open water was at length gained, the instructions were to go south-west
from Cape Walker, and that was now the point aimed at.  When the Cape had been gained, and
quitted for Cape Herschel, the ships fell into the Melville Island ice-stream, and they struggled
on till King William's Land was sighted.  But unfortunately by that time another winter had
began to reform the ice.  So there was nothing to do but find winter quarters, which were finally
established northward of Cape Felix, in anything but a happy place, for the ice there is described
as of a most fearful nature, and of terrible pressure.

Here there was a fearful prospect--nothing but ice in mountains, and in masses which tossed
the ships--slowly indeed--and threatened to "nip" them in halves.  But notwithstanding all
the hardships, the men bore up, and prepared for the overland journey to Cape Herschel--a hundred
miles only!--as soon as the spring should open.  As soon as possible, a pioneer party, under
Lieutenant Gore and Mr Des Voeux, of the Erebus, started off to see the channel or path by
which they might reach America.  When they rapidly returned to tell their comrades the good
news they had gathered, they found Sir John Franklin dead!

Shortly afterwards, in a deep crevasse in the ice, the body was laid while the burial service
was read over it by Captain Fitzjames. Franklin, "like another Moses, fell when his work was
accomplished--with the long object of his life in view."

The movement of such ice as was still around the vessels would not take place till very late.
The ice will move, but winter may again shut the ships in before they have traversed one half
of the ninety miles still remaining.  Captains Fitzjames and Crozier consult accordingly.

The floe moves, and the imbedded ships go south with it, but there is no water.  No sailing
is possible.  Drifting helpless with the ice, the Erebus and Terror are carried along, but
unless open water be found, they will drift back again in the autumn, or at any rate remain
imprisoned in it.

Autumn has arrived--the new ice is forming, the floe no longer moves at all.  Thirty miles
have been passed over by the floe; the explorers are so much nearer, but then the drift ceases.
Sixty miles or less of ice intervene, and then the open sea will be reached.  But the doom
has gone forth.  Winter closes again on the brave, the sick, and the suffering; cold, disease,
and privation are fast decimating the available hands. The snow-cloud settles down upon the
vessels, darkness shrouds them; and when the curtain again rises, and the sun shines out, we
find twenty-one officers and men had been laid to their long, last rest in the Arctic solitudes.
One hundred and four men still remain--hungry, frozen, patient, brave.  Alas that all the bravery
was no avail!

It is pitiful to dwell upon the remainder of the sad story of the expedition.  We can picture
the band now reduced to such extremity that they must all remain to die, or struggle on across
the ice and snow to Cape Herschel.  They must go.  They pack the boats, and put them upon sleighs,
and then wait for spring to set about their weary work.

April comes, and has nearly gone, when the command is given.  The men look their last upon
the Erebus and Terror, give them three cheers, and go away into the desolate waste--to die!
Point Victory their object.  They gained it, and then their helplessness came and stared them
in the face.  In a cairn on the point Fitzjames placed a brief record, and that is all.  They
have only food for a month more, and day by day the strong are growing weak and the weak are dying.

The increase in the number of the latter necessitated a division.  The sick must remain till
help comes, or go back to the ships.  We can picture the fearful alternative.  Many remained,
and of that number two skeletons were afterwards found, and on board one of the ships the "bones
of a large man with long teeth!"  That is all!

The remainder pushed on to Cape Herschel, and left a record in a cairn. They were desperate
and dying men, yet they endeavoured to reach the Great Fish River, but alas! alas! the skeleton
found lying face downwards, left unburied as he fell, tells us as much of the fate of the whole
party as if the record had been kept.

  "The Polar clouds uplift
  One moment, and no more."

For a long time no one knew the fate of the Erebus and Terror, until Lady Franklin sent out
McClintock in the Fox to lift the veil which hung over the last voyage of the intrepid John
Franklin.  But before giving the account of McClintock's successful search we will enumerate
the various attempts made by Government to ascertain the fate of Franklin.  Our summary must
be a very brief one.

Three years after Franklin had set out considerable uneasiness was felt in Great Britain concerning
him.  In 1848 two ships, the Herald and the Plover, were sent out by the Admiralty to afford
assistance, but Sir John Richardson and Doctor Rae had anticipated the Government vessels,
and gone via New York to the Mackenzie, which he had already twice visited with Franklin. 
Captain Sir James Ross also was searching by the Lancaster Sound, and he experienced many hardships;
but in 1850 his vessels (the Enterprise and Investigator, under Collinson and McClure) were
sent, and later on an international squadron was dispatched to Lancaster Sound under Captains
Austin and Penny, Sir John Ross in the Felix, and Mr Grinnell's two American ships under Lieutenant
De Haven, as well as the Albert, sent out by Lady Franklin at her own cost, commanded by Commander
Forsyth.

This mixture of royal and mercantile naval commands gave rise to some unfriendly feelings,
but Captain Penny succeeded in finding many traces of Franklin's crews, and the tombs of those
who had died in 1846.  Many most useful surveys and some geographical discoveries were made,
but beyond the traces found by Ommaney and Penny nothing of the fate of the Franklin expedition
was discovered.

In 1852 Sir E. Belcher sailed on the same errand.  Lady Franklin also dispatched the Isabel.
Doctor Rae in 1854, however, discovered, through the information afforded by the Esquimaux,
that some white men had been seen in King William's Land a few years previously, "dragging
boats across the ice," and "looking thin."  The Hudson's Bay Company then sent Mr Anderson,
in accordance with a request of the English Government, to explore the district; and on Montreal
Island he found the remains of a boat, and obtained from the Esquimaux many relics of Franklin's
expedition, with articles which had belonged to the crews. This intelligence decided Lady Franklin
to make another attempt to learn the actual fate of her brave husband.

Before Doctor Rae had returned with the intelligence he had gained concerning the Franklin
Expedition, a very important Arctic Expedition had been undertaken by Doctor Elisha Kane. 
To this we must turn our attention in a new chapter, as he went out to the limits of the Arctic
Zone in search of Sir J. Franklin, and accomplished a most adventurous journey.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

DR KANE'S VOYAGE TO THE POLAR REGIONS.

American exploration--The "open Polar Sea"--Dr Kane's voyage in the Advance--Sledge-work--The
Advance in winter quarters--Incidents of the winter--Abandonment of the ship--Terrible suffering--Drifting--
Rescued.

The Americans had already sent out an expedition to search for Franklin, which was commanded
by Lieutenant De Haven.  These vessels were the Advance and Rescue, and the expedition, which
we have referred to as the "Grinnell Expedition," was accompanied by Doctor E.K. Kane as "surgeon,
naturalist, and historian."  In the spring of 1853, when more search expeditions were being
sent out, Mr Grinnell, Mr Peabody, and other gentlemen, dispatched Doctor Kane as leader of
this important undertaking.

Doctor Kane had minutely studied the Arctic problem, and he entertained the idea that around
the Pole is open water--a theory afterwards acted on by Doctor Hayes, and set forth in a pamphlet
by Captain Bent, called "Gateways to the Pole," which sustains the belief that the Gulf Stream,
by its warm water, keeps the northern channel free from ice, and by following the Gulf Stream
the Pole may be reached.

But this is a digression.  Doctor Kane had accepted the conduct of the expedition, and at once
embarked upon it.  He went upon the supposition of the "open Polar Sea," and sailed in the
Advance from New York, on the 30th of May, 1853.  He had determined to penetrate as far up
"Smith's Strait" as possible, and by it enter the Polar Sea.  His party consisted of eighteen
officers and men, including Doctor Hayes.

At Saint John's, Newfoundland, they paused to embark some dogs for sleigh-hauling, and steered
thence for Baffin's Bay.  Early in July the ship entered Frikernaes, in Greenland, where the
people received the crew gladly.  On the 16th the promontory of Swartchuk was passed; and,
later, icebergs were met with in considerable numbers, under one of which they were nearly
swamped, the warning fragments only giving the ship time to cast off her icy moorings.  Melville
Bay was however navigated, and by the 3rd of August the North Water, through which Kane wished
to reach Smith's Strait (or Sound), was opening to their view.

The "Red Snow," or Crimson Cliffs mentioned by Sir John Ross, were safely passed, and then
doubling Alexander Cape, Smith's Sound was fairly entered.  When Littlebow Island was at length
reached, Doctor Kane determined to form a store depot there, and leave a boat, in view of future
contingencies.  Stones, and sand, and water were placed and poured upon the covered stores,
blankets, etcetera.  This cache was soon frozen solid, and thus preserved from the weather
and the Polar bears.  The boat was left near what proved to be an old Esquimaux camp.

When these far-seeing preparations had been made, Doctor Kane endeavoured to press on, but
all attempts were defeated by the ice which pressed upon the vessel; so an advance along the
coast was tried.  A storm arose, and the bergs came dashing along before the wind.  The brave
Kane determined to utilise his threatening foes, and, making fast to one fine iceberg, the
Advance was towed along, while the storm lasted, through the ice which the drifting berg cleared
away merrily. Thus, after considerable peril from storm and ice, the vessel lay at rest in
temporary shelter under another iceberg, which, fortunately, protected them from the hurricane.

They had come fully ten miles in the track of the convenient iceberg; and, when the storm abated--which
it did on the 22nd--the crew took the Advance in tow, but made little progress along the ice-belt.
Doctor Kane was too impatient to stay with the vessel, so, with a few followers, he hurried
on in front to survey the coast in a boat, somewhat unpleasantly named the Forlorn Hope, which,
however, they soon abandoned for a sleigh.

The journey in this conveyance was neither so easy nor so rapid as perhaps may be expected,
but some progress was made, though eight miles a day does not come up to our European notions
of sledge-travelling. Finding the ice more and more difficult the sleigh was in its turn quitted,
and the party advanced on foot.  In this manner, in not very cold weather, they proceeded rapidly.
They passed Cape Thackeray, which they named, and reached Cape George Russell; whence they
viewed the great Humboldt Glacier, Cape Jackson, and Cape Barrow, all illustrious titles in
the archives of the world.

When Doctor Kane had made a search for a harbour, and found none so convenient as the place
he had left the Advance, he made his way back again, satisfied that he had as good winter quarters
as he could reasonably expect to find.  But he, perhaps, overlooked the fact that had he discovered
a convenient inlet in the ice fifty miles from the ship, how was the Advance to be brought
into it over an ice-pack, where a boat or a sleigh could not travel?  So, perhaps, all things
considered, it was fortunate that he did not find a better shelter.

Doctor Kane and his men returned to the Advance, and had her warped in between two islands
for the winter, which was then rapidly approaching. Soundings were taken in seven fathoms,
and when all had been made snug, the vessel was secured, laid-up in harbour--a shelter which
she was destined never to quit--at any rate, not as a "commissioned" ship.

Preparations were made for sleigh journeys.  The dogs were trained, sleighs were constructed,
while an observatory was also erected.  Some of the party made excursions during the winter,
and found their course barred by an immense glacier four hundred feet high.  Varied means were
resorted to to kill the usual monotony of the Arctic winter.  A newspaper was started, "hare
and hounds" was practised, and perhaps amateur plays were acted, beside the "Frozen Deep."
They did get up a fancy ball, and enjoyed it very much.

A fire on board ship varied these more interesting proceedings.  It occurred while an experiment
was being made to kill rats with carbonic acid gas.  The chief immediate effects were to nearly
suffocate Doctor Kane and three others, a considerable fire, and some discomfort.  Then some
dogs went mad in consequence of the depression induced by darkness and the intense cold.  The
explorers encountered many dangers in their excursions, also in falling into crevasses, etcetera.
Some dogs died owing to want of sunlight.

Never had any explorers wintered in such high latitudes before, excepting perhaps in Spitzbergen.
We cannot picture to ourselves the intense Egyptian darkness which prevails in such places
as Kane and his companions wintered.  The thermometer was more than 100 degrees below freezing
point.  This was in February, 1854, and the "madness" of the dogs, though not harmful to their
masters, was evidently attributable to the terrible cold, which affected the air passages,
and to the continued absence of light.

At length Doctor Kane went with a selected party to meet the sun.  He set off to find the light
for which all were perishing.  The sun was sighted, and the news was quickly followed by the
orb, which revived the half-frozen crew and the remaining dogs, of which only six were alive,
the rest had died mad--"mentally" afflicted--not with "hydrophobia," but with "brain" disease.
As for the effect on the men, we may quote Doctor Kane, who says, "An Arctic night and an Arctic
day age a man more harshly than a year anywhere else in all this weary world."

Doctor Kane had made preparations for his sledge expedition to the north, and a small party
was sent ahead on the 19th of March to establish a depot of stores.  But by the 31st of the
month three men returned, swollen, haggard, and scarcely able to articulate.  Four men had
been left frozen in the ice in a tent, perfectly disabled.  Even the direction in which they
lay was uncertain, but Kane and nine men started to the rescue.  They nearly relinquished the
search in sheer despair until some footprints were discovered which gave them the clue.  They
reached the tent after a continued search of twenty-one hours.

After a brief rest--some sleeping in the small tent by turns, while the rest walked about outside
to keep themselves from freezing--they set out on their homeward journey, but quickly became
aware of their rapidly failing energies.  They were still nine miles from home, and some men
wanted to lie down and sleep, another was frozen stiff, and another lay down in the snow. 
A halt was necessary.

The tent was pitched: no fire could be lighted, as no one could hold the materials for striking
the flame.  The worst patients were put inside the tent, and then Kane and Godfrey pushed on
to the camp for food. They could only keep themselves awake by incessant talking all the way,
and Doctor Kane states they were neither of them entirely in their right senses during this
trying walk.  They remember a bear which tore a "jumper" that one of the men had thrown off
on the previous day; however, the animal did not mind the explorers at all.  But Bruin had
upset the tent, and it was with much difficulty Kane and his companion raised it.  They then
went to sleep, and Kane's beard was frozen to the buffalo skin, so he had to be "cut out."
By the time they had made preparations, the remainder of the party arrived, and they all made
for the brig.

The remainder of the journey was scarcely accomplished with life.  Many ate snow, and their
mouths swelled fearfully.  Nearly all were exhausted.  At length they became delirious, and
only reached the Advance by instinct, for they were all staggering along blindly when Peterson
and Whipple met them with some restoratives.  This expedition cost two men amputation, and
two others died.

During the short summer some expeditions were organised, as the Advance remained immovable.
Some discoveries were made, but the expeditions ended in disaster.  The Humboldt Glacier and
Tennyson Monument--the latter a column of ice, like an obelisk four hundred and eighty feet
high, on a pedestal--were visited.  But nothing resulted from the excursions but blindness,
privation, and suffering.  An attempt was made to communicate with Sir E. Belcher on Beachey
Island, but it failed, and another winter in the ice had to be faced.  Some men preferred to
leave the ship, but they returned after a while.

The winter passed drearily, amid privations which brought the men almost down to the lowest
pitch of despair but employment fortunately kept them from the last depth, and preparations
for a spring excursion cheered them up.  The Esquimaux were friendly, and a treaty was entered
into with them, which proved useful.

At last summer appeared.  The 17th of May was fixed for the start; the Advance was to be abandoned.
The day was Sunday.  Prayers were read, and then Doctor Kane addressed his men, hopefully pointing
out their duty, and encouraging them to proceed, unselfishly helping the sick and behaving
like men.  The flags were then hoisted and struck; then the Advance was abandoned, and the
retreat commenced to Littleton Island first, and thence to Danish Settlements.

It was Tuesday, the 19th of June, when the party took a last leave of the Esquimaux and put
to sea; that first night a boat was swamped.  The Eric went down in the ice; the Faith and
Hope remained.  On the 22nd, Northumberland Island was reached in a blinding snowstorm; but
fresh provisions were fortunately procured.

They then succeeded, by dragging the boats over the ice, with occasional rowing, in crossing
the Murchison Channel, and encamped for the night on the land ice-floe.  Thus they proceeded,
amid tremendous difficulties, on scanty food--bread-dust and a lump of tallow about the size
of a walnut--and tea when they could procure water.  At length they found the loads heavier,
and came to the sad conclusion that their energies were giving way.  Nothing in view, "we were
sorely disheartened," says Doctor Kane.

No wonder!  Utterly at the mercy of the ice, which at times broke up, and fell down, threatening
to carry them to destruction with it, or bury them amid the hummocks.  Hemmed in, and in imminent
danger of death, they nevertheless clung to the ice until the rising tide should float them
up and enable them to scale the icy cliffs into comparative shelter--"Weary Man's Rest."

There they remained till the snow had abated, and then they struggled on amid ice and "sludge"
until checked by a glacier.  They had doubled Cape Dudley Digges, and after a survey, decided
to wait in the ice at "Providence Halt."  After a week's rest they again continued their way,
past the "Crimson Cliffs," and into more cheerful regions.  They were, however, nearly starving,
but managed to secure a seal, which saved them for the time; their feet were badly swollen,
and they had no desire to sleep.  They were now drifting in the open bay (in the Atlantic "ice-drift")
in leaky boats, a position sufficiently perilous, even without the accompaniments of hunger
and sleeplessness.

On the 1st of August, however, they had reached familiar waters.  Two days later a cry was
heard, ending in a "hullo."  Men were coming, in a small boat.  "It is the Upernavik oil-boat,"
said Petersen.  He was right.  From the men they learned the news of the Crimean War, and the
discovery of the remains of Franklin's party a thousand miles south of the places they had
explored.

Next day they gained Upernavik in safety, after eighty-four days' travelling; in the open air
all the time.  In Upernavik they remained until the 6th of September, and then embarked for
the Shetland Isles. On the way they fell in with some American vessels which had been dispatched
to search for them, and they were soon welcomed in New York.

From a scientific point of view Doctor Kane's expedition had most important results in the
discovery of a large channel to the north-west, and in many other discoveries and surveys of
the American and Greenland coasts.

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

THE "FOX" EXPEDITION.

Expeditions in search of Franklin--The Fox commissioned by Sir L. McClintock--The search by
Hobson--Relics found--The fate of Sir John Franklin's expedition--The North-West Passage discovered.

While Doctor Kane was away in 1853 the North-West Passage had been demonstrated by Captains
McClure and Collinson, who it may be remembered went on in 1850 in the Investigator and Resolute
to carry out the "Behring Strait Expedition."  In 1853 Lady Franklin sent out the Rattlesnake
and Isabel to find McClure.  Captain Inglefield also went out, as already stated, to aid Sir
E. Belcher in Barrow Strait.  It was on this voyage that Lieutenant Bellot was lost (August,
1853). Belcher found no traces of Franklin, but they found McClure and his ships' company,
who had been in the ice for three years.  They had gone in by Behring's Strait and returned
by Baffin's Bay, which established the fact of the so long doubted passage parallel with the
American coast between these pieces of water.  In 1854 the ships Assistance, Resolute, Pioneer,
Intrepid, and the Investigator were all abandoned.  The crews were taken on board the Talbot,
Phoenix, and North Star, and reached England in 1854 without having found any true trace of
Franklin, though it had been ascertained that he wintered upon Beachey Island in 1845-6.

The crews of the Erebus and Terror were given up.  War was threatening in Europe, and the relics
of Franklin were obscured in the smoke of the Crimean battles.  Nevertheless, the idea that
Sir John Franklin and his devoted followers were in the Arctic regions, and still alive, was
entertained by a good many people.  The Admiralty declined to inquire farther, but Lady Franklin
again found means to equip and dispatch a fourth expedition.  In 1857 the preparations were
made. Captain McClintock, who had commanded former expeditions, undertook the post of leader.
The Fox was purchased, and on the 1st of July, 1857, the search again was entered upon.

After an interesting voyage, the Fox arrived off Upernavik, and procured some dogs for the
sleighs.  On the 6th of August letters were sent home, and the yacht bore away for Baffin's
Bay.  Ice in quantities was encountered; and the ship was then steered along the "pack," till
on the 12th of August the Fox was moored to an iceberg.  On the 16th, the floes began to move
off; but the vessel was soon beset by the floes again after a short progress; and on the 7th
of September the Fox was quite hemmed in, and had to remain where she then was until the 17th
of April, 1858.  Then ensued the terrible silence and darkness of the winter, and the monotonous,
weary cycle of the days, while drifting helplessly in the ice.

On the 26th of February daylight superseded the candles, and in March the ice showed symptoms
of breaking up.  The disruption at length came. The Fox was in imminent danger from the closing
up of the ice, and the force with which the floes come together cannot be estimated by any
who have not witnessed the scene.  The dogs were alarmed, and many were lost.  The Fox drifted
and sailed on, was again beset, and in danger. At length the ice broke up, the vessel was put
under steam, and before the wind; she pushed her way out, and on the 28th of April the Fox
dropped anchor in Holsteinberg harbour, in Greenland, where the crews met with a warm and cheerful
reception.

After many struggles and escapes Cape York was reached on the 26th of June, and then many places
were visited, but no traces nor information concerning the lost expedition could be obtained.
So, in August, the Fox sought Beachey Island, and erected a tombstone over the remains of those
who lay there, close to Bellot's monument.  Many days were occupied in endeavouring to pass
Bellot's Strait, but again and again were carried back by tides and ice-drift.  Some land expeditions
were made and surveys taken, but at the end of September the strait was quitted, and a refuge
sought within Kennedy Harbour.

Hobson, who had been exploring, had a very narrow escape of being carried away on the floating
ice; but he got back safely to the ship. After this the ship's company sat down in winter quarters
until the 10th of February.  Captain McClintock and Lieutenant Young then left the Fox on searching
expeditions.  McClintock came back on the 14th with intelligence concerning some white men
who had been seen off the north-west coast of King William's Land.  Young returned early in
March, and was off again on the 18th to Fury Beach.  Afterwards three search parties were formed.
Lieutenants Hobson and Young and Captain McClintock all started.  The last resigned to the
first-named the most likely field of discovery in King William's Land.  McClintock went towards
the Fish River, and subsequently found the dead man we have already mentioned, lying face downwards
in the snow, near Cape Herschel. He then came across a boat which Hobson had already found,
and left in it a memorandum to the effect that he had discovered the records of the Erebus
and Terror, and had returned to the Fox.  Along the shore by Cape Victoria Hobson had searched
and found the memorandum left in the cairn which told of the death of Franklin on the 11th
of June, 1847, and that, after quitting the ships, the one hundred and six survivors, under
Captain Crozier, would start for the Great Fish River.  Many relics were found by Hobson, and
near Cape Crozier he discovered a boat with two skeletons, with matches, spoons, and money,
prayer-books, etcetera.

Further investigation proved that all had perished in the attempt to make the North-West Passage,
an attempt which may be said to have succeeded, though the poor men themselves never lived
to tell of their success.  They came down Franklin Straits, and had found the Passage they
sought.  The searchers were satisfied, and the Fox returned home.

Captain McClintock had well accomplished his mission.  He found that the lamented Franklin
had reached within ninety miles of success, for just that distance intervened between him and
the place reached by Messrs. Simpson and Deane in 1838-9.  Franklin's men died "in accomplishing
their last great earthly task, and but for the energy and devotion of the wife of their great
leader, it would in all probability never have been known that they were indeed the first Discoverers
of the North-West Passage."

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO.

THE GERMAN AND AUSTRIAN EXPEDITIONS TO THE ARCTIC REGIONS.

The Germania and Hansa--They part company--The fate of the Hansa and her crew--The Germania
expedition and its return--Voyage of Payer and Weyprecht in 1871--Austro-Hungary expedition--The
Tegethoff-- Discovery of Franz-Joseph Land--Sledge work--Incidents--The return--The Tegethoff
abandoned--Home again.

The Germania and Hansa constituted the second German expedition to Arctic regions.  The first
had been undertaken in 1868 under Koldeway and Petermann, but when the Germania returned another
expedition on a larger scale--the Hansa under Koldeway, and the sister vessel under Hegemann--proceeded
with all the necessary equipment from Bremen on the 15th of June, 1869, and on the 5th of July
crossed the Arctic circle, where similar ceremonies to those practised when the "line" is crossed,
were performed.  Jan Meyer's Land was passed, and on the 10th of July the Hansa and Germania
parted company in the fog, and met again no more.  An error in signalling occasioned the separation.

The Hansa continued along shore and got in amid the ice.  The winter set in, and the crew managed
to exist as men usually do under such circumstances.  They built a hut and killed bears, living
with no very great discomfort till the middle of October, when the ice pressed on the ship
and stove it in.  The water gained when the ice retreated; the Hansa was doomed to destruction,
and she sank, on the 21st, in latitude 70 degrees 52 minutes North 21 degrees West near the
Liverpool coast amid the floating ice.

The crew escaped to the ice.  They had already, Crusoe fashion, saved all they could from the
ship.  The field of ice in which they had encamped drifted away to the south.  The floe was
examined.  It was about seven miles in circumference, about two miles in diameter, and about
forty-five feet thick, five feet being above water.  Christmas came, still they drifted.  By
the new year the ice gave symptoms of breaking up, the wind blew, and the danger was imminent.
Though the floe had been considerable no mishap occurred to them.  The boats were fortunately
in good condition, but day after day the ice kept threatening, until at last the floe became
so small that living on it any longer was out of the question.  February, March, and April
had passed thus, and on the 6th of May the latitude of Bergen had been reached.  The ice raft
was soon abandoned, the boats launched, but the ice again stopped them.  On the 6th of June,
after various adventures, the voyage was resumed, and the boats' heads put for Freiderichsthal
on the south-west coast of Greenland, near Cape Farewell, which was gained in June, 1870. 
Schleswig was reached in safety in September via Copenhagen, where they were landed by the
Constance.

The Germania meantime had continued her voyage, and endeavoured, though without success, to
reach the east coast of Greenland.  She wintered in Sabine Bay.  The ordinary incidents of
the winter occurred, and we need not mention the health-drinking and Christmas festivities
in the Arctic Regions.  The explorers quite disagreed with Kane's "open sea" theory after making
some sledge expeditions to verify the suggestion.  Ice was everywhere, as far as the eyes could
see.  Many surveys were undertaken, and much useful scientific information was obtained, but
no new discoveries of any importance were made by either the Hansa or the more fortunate Germania.

The homeward voyage passed without incidents, and the surviving ship returned to Bremen on
the 11th of September, when the stupendous results of their countrymen's arms in France were
revealed to them in all their meaning.

Several expeditions other than the above were dispatched in 1869, but they did little.  In
1870 there was no great voyage accomplished, but in 1871 the Arctic Regions were again looked
at as the Ultima Thule of voyagers, and in June of that year Lieutenants Payer and Weyprecht
sailed away to Novaya Zemlya, where they found an open sea with little ice.  In October they
returned to Tromsoe, after sighting the island they sought.

The North-East passage now became the idea.  That it could be accomplished via Siberia, Lieutenant
Payer believed, and the Austro-Hungarian Arctic expedition was soon an accomplished fact. Doctor
Petermann said the work accomplished by the little expedition were very valuable, and it was
decided to supplement it.  The steamship Tegethoff was fitted out: the equipment was most complete,
many well-known Arctic voyagers lending their assistance.  Captain Carlsen was pilot, Captain
Weyprecht commanded, and Lieutenant Payer was the land explorer.

The Tegethoff left Bremen on the 13th of June, 1872, and came in sight of Novaya Zemlya on
the 29th of July.  In August the Jabjorn yacht joined company; but little in the way of exploration
was undertaken until August, when the yacht, with Count Wilczek, left the Tegethoff to her
own devices.  The gallant vessel pushed on, and was beset by the ice very soon on the north
coast of Novaya Zemlya, where in many and great dangers the winter passed.  On the 29th of
October the sun disappeared for 109 days!  The winter over, the months of May, June, and July
were spent in trying to saw the Tegethoff out of the ice; but all the efforts made were futile.
The north wind in July sent the ice southward, but in a month the return drift set in with
southerly winds, and no hope of the breaking up of the ice was entertained.  In August, 1873,
the crew sighted land; it was approached, and named after Count Wilczek, the originator of
the expedition.

The gloom of Arctic night prevented any more exploration.  The vessel continued to drift northward,
and at length the floe was driven on an island, where it remained with the vessel, three miles
from the shore. The second winter now began.  In January the cold was very severe: the oil
froze, the lamps went out, and the brandy even was congealed into a solid mass.  Bears paid
the voyagers frequent visits, and many were shot; but all males, no female bears appeared.

In March, Lieutenant Payer and his party went on a sledge-journey in a north-west direction
to Hall Island.  The whole region seemed "devoid of life"--ice and great glaciers everywhere.
The cold was intense.  This party returned, and another journey was undertaken to the north
with the sleighs, equipped as directed by Sir L. McClintock.  This expedition resulted in the
discovery of Franz-Joseph Land, as it was named after the Emperor.  It is like Eastern Greenland--a
"land of desolation," with high mountains and vast glaciers, of a greenish-blue colour.  The
vegetation is extremely poor, and the country is uninhabited.

Further on they reached another territory, which they named Crown Prince Rudolf Land, the habitation
of millions of sea-birds, and thousands of bears, seals, and foxes.  A great glacier was crossed,
but as it was quitted an immense fissure engulfed the sleigh with the stores, while the others
only narrowly escaped by cutting the traces.  Lieutenant Payer hurried back for assistance,
and at length dogs, men, and sleigh were pulled up, safe and nearly sound.  Rounding Auk Cape,
the explorers reached open water by the shore.

Pressing on to latitude 81 degrees 57 minutes north, the party reached their farthest point.
From an elevated position the explorer made his observations, which led him to the conclusion
that there is no open polar sea, yet that the ocean is not always covered with ice.  There
is a medium which a favourable year would improve, and render navigation, near the shore, possible.
Having deposited a record of the visit, the party returned over the hundred and sixty miles
they had come.

One more little journey was made, and then the thoughts of the officers and men turned to home.
On the 20th of May the ship's colours were nailed to the mast, and the retreat was commenced.
Provisions were packed in boats, the boats placed on sleighs, but little progress was made
at first as all hands were required for each sleigh in turn.  Two months were occupied in making
a distance of eight miles--and a third winter in the ice seemed probable.

At last, in July, they made a mile a day.  In August they reached the edge of the pack, when
the sleighs were abandoned, and the dogs killed, as no room could be spared.  The boats then
crossed open water to Novaya Zemlya, and at the end of three months from leaving the ship sighted
a Russian vessel.  The Nickolai brought them to Vardoe in Norway, where the voyagers landed
in September, 1874.

The success of the expedition was unquestionable, for land was discovered two hundred miles
north of Nova Zemlya.  The success of the sleighing is due to Sir L. McClintock's advice.

[The Tegethoff we see drifted north--other vessels we have read of drifted south.  Does not
that indicate a simultaneous movement of ice around the Pole on both sides?  The American side
going south as the ice-floe on the Asiatic side ascends--as glaciers in Switzerland which are
connected, advance and recede in turn.  This idea would go to prove that no open sea exists
there; the ice covers the whole of the Polar Ocean, and moves north and south correspondingly.
This is, however, only speculation, but as the Tegethoff is said to have been drifted by the
wind, which must have been southerly, and therefore northerly on the other side, the fact will
not militate against the idea above suggested.]

The Austro-Hungarian Expedition did not succeed in discovering the North-East Passage.  We
will now turn to the great Nordenskiold, who did succeed.

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE.

THE VOYAGES OF ERIK NORDENSKIOLD--1870-1878.

Expeditions to the North--To Spitzbergen and the Yenissei--The Discovery of the North-East Passage.

Nils Adolf Erik Nordenskiold was born at Helsingfors, Finland, in November, 1832.  His father
was a distinguished naturalist; Erik often accompanied him in his expeditions, and thus early
acquired a taste for natural history and research.  He entered the University at Helsingfors
in 1849.  The stern rule of Russia subsequently compelled young Nordenskiold to go to Sweden.
The governor of Finland, fancying he detected treason in some after-supper speech, Nordenskiold
was obliged to depart; but this was the turning point in his career.

The illustrious Mosander received the student cordially.  Nordensk'iold studied hard, and in
1858 made his first acquaintance with Arctic seas in Torrell's Spitzbergen expedition.  In
1861 he again accompanied Torrell to Spitzbergen.  In July, 1863, he married.  In 1864 he commanded
an expedition fitted out by the Academy of Stockholm, and in 1868, aided by Government and
Mr Oscar Dickson, he reached the highest latitude ever attained in the eastern hemisphere.
From this expedition he brought home a rich collection of curiosities.  Again, in 1870, Mr
Dickson paid the expenses of a voyage to Greenland.

In 1872, Nordenskiold (whose name, we may mention, is pronounced Nordensholt) undertook another
Polar expedition with two vessels, the Polhern and the Gladen.  A quantity of reindeer-moss
was provided and stowed in a third ship, the Onkel Adam.  Nordenskiold was accompanied by Lieutenant
L. Palander, with Doctor Envall, E. Parent, an Italian officer, and Messrs. Wijkander and Kjellman
as scientists.  On the 4th of July the Polhern and Gladen sailed; from Gothenburg, and when
the former reached Tromsoe, the Austrian Polar vessel Amiral Tegethoff was about to sail.

On the 25th of July, South Cape, the southern extremity of Spitzbergen, was sighted, and the
vessels proceeded along the coast northward between Prince Charles Foreland and the mainland
till Fair Haven was reached. Here they were obliged to remain because of the ice, and in August
the Onkel Adam arrived with the reindeer and other necessary assistance, and with stores. 
The attempt to reach the Seven Islands north of Spitzbergen was now abandoned for that season,
but some progress to the north was effected, and Mussel Bay, to the north-north-east of Spitzbergen,
was selected as winter quarters.

Scarcely had the necessary preparations been made when a sudden and extremely violent storm
arose; by this the unexpected advent of the ice was announced.  The cold hand was quickly laid
upon the waters, and the winter campaign had to be faced.  But we may imagine the surprise
of the explorers when, as they were settling down in winter quarters, six strangers approached,
who informed Nordenskiold that their six ships had been unexpectedly frozen in, and there were
fifty-eight men in danger of ultimate starvation!

This was most unpleasant news, for the expedition had only sufficient for its own requirements,
and such an addition to the party was a very serious drawback.  Still help was absolutely necessary,
and a note was sent to the captains of the imprisoned ships, that the explorers would do all
in their power.

But a sad blow awaited them.  In another severe storm all the reindeer got away; and, of course,
a valuable supply of fresh meat, besides transport, was cut off at one fell stroke.  Only one
of the reins was recaptured, and he was wounded.  Fortunately some large wild reindeer were
shot, and they made a welcome addition to the larder.  At the end of October winter began to
set in severely, and the reindeer-moss was utilised by the imprisoned people as food.  The
winter-time was passed as well as possible, and interesting observations were taken.  Scurvy
and pleurisy, however, attacked the men; and though Christmas and New Year were celebrated,
and 1873 was saluted by a display of fireworks, the precarious condition of the crews was by
no means ameliorated.

However, lamp-light was dispensed with on the 6th of February, and on the 13th of March the
sun was seen again.  In January the cold had been "inconsiderable," and the bay had been cleared
of ice, but on the 20th of February the cold was very great.  April was occupied in preparations
for Nordenski'old's expedition across North-East Land, and on the 24th of April he and Palander
started with three sleighs.  After some delay, in consequence of accident, Palander returned,
and Nordenskiold proceeded to Shoal Point, the north-west extremity of North-East Land, where
Palander again joined him on the 5th of May (1873).

The sledge party started on the 6th.  It consisted of Nordenskiold, Palander, and nine men,
who intended to proceed to the Seven Islands which will be found on the map north of Spitzbergen.
Each man in turn was cook for the party; he had to rise early and get breakfast ready. The
march was then proceeded with, resting occasionally at certain intervals during the ten hours
allotted to the daily journey.  Sailing over the ice and snow on the sledges, good progress
was made, and on the 12th Costien's Island was reached.

Early on the 16th, Parry Island was gained, and a small depot was made there.  Some of the
men then were sent back.  The leaders of the party here made a survey from an elevated standpoint,
and this view showed them that there was no possibility of going north of the Seven Islands,
as the ice was in such an uneven condition.  The journey in the anticipated direction was therefore
abandoned as hopeless.

But Nordenskiold would not return by the same way he had come.  He determined to go back by
way of North-East Land, a course which occupied the party forty days, but they gained considerable
information, and the scientific results, as well as the difficulties, were greater than had
been expected.  The expedition returned safely to Mussel Bay on the 29th of June.  The members
who had been left behind had passed a most uncomfortable time.  The cold was great, provisions
scarce.  Scurvy set in, which, added to home-sickness and anxiety on account of the absent
ones, made matters worse.  Food became scarcer, but providentially Mr Leigh Smith, in the Diana,
arrived, and he satisfied the immediate requirements of the unfortunate Swedes.  The historian
of the expedition warmly acknowledges the assistance so opportunely rendered.

Spring was at hand.  Palander came in, and then Nordenskiold.  All anxiety was then over. 
The same day, the 29th of June, the vessels passed through the channel which had been cut in
the ice, and then they anchored in open water.  No time was lost.  The Onkel Adam sailed homeward
almost immediately: the Gladen followed.  The Polhern, however, remained in the icy latitudes
for some time longer dredging. On the 6th of August, after with difficulty escaping the ice,
Nordenskiold arrived at Tromsoe, and on the 29th at Gothenberg, where the expedition dispersed.

In 1875 and 1876 the professor made two voyages to the Yenissei River and up it.  By this course
he opened up Siberia to trade, and received the thanks of the Russian Government for inaugurating
a sea route to Siberia.  But these voyages, in a sense tentative, were completely eclipsed
by the expedition undertaken in the Vega, in which Nordenskiold accomplished the long-desired
North-East Passage from the North Atlantic to the North Pacific Ocean eastwards.  The ease
with which he had accomplished the two voyages already mentioned (to the Yenissei River) urged
him to proceed with the expedition which he had been studying for years, the discovery of the
North-East Passage.

Sebastian Cabot was the first adventurer in the work destined to be accomplished by the Swedish
explorer.  More than three hundred years ago Cabot equipped three ships for the "Merchant Adventurers,"
and put them under the command of Sir H. Willoughby and Chancelor in 1553.  This ended in disaster.
In 1580 the "Muscovy Company," as the "Adventurers" called themselves, sent out Arthur Pitt,
who could not open the "pack" ice.  Barentz, who tried three times, in 1593, 1595, and 1596,
was closed up in the ice of Novaya Zemlya, and perished.  Henry Hudson tried in 1607-8.  The
Danes made the attempt in 1653.  Captain J. Wood also sailed to the unhospitable shores of
Novaya Zemlya, and so terrified people by his descriptions that they gave up the attempt in
despair.

Thus the North-East Passage became a dreaded and a sealed course to the mariners of all nations.
It was deemed impossible to break through the icy barrier; and the Russians made the attempt
only to prove the assertion by failure.  But when Nordensk'iold had reached the Kara Sea, and
the Yenissei River, he began to think he could also solve the long-tried problem of the North-East
Passage eastwards to the Pacific.

Assisted by his liberal friend, Mr Oscar Dickson, and supported by King Oscar the Second of
Sweden, and M. Sibiriakoff, a Siberian landholder, Nordenskiold purchased the steam-whaler
Vega--a name now celebrated throughout the civilised world.  She was equipped and manned under
Government auspices, and provisioned for two years.  She sailed from Gothenburg on the 21st
of July, accompanied by the steamer Lena, commanded by Johannesen from Tromsoe.  There were
also supply vessels in company, but our narrative (which is compiled from "Nordenskiold's Voyages,"
and other sources) will deal with the Vega, and incidentally with the Lena, till she parted
company at the mouth of the river whose name she bears.  In the expedition were included many
scientific gentlemen, and the crews were composed of picked men.

The vessels rounded the North Cape, and on the 29th of July sighted Novaya Zemlya.  Then they
passed the Yergar Strait and entered the Kara Sea, the immense gulf lying between Novaya Zemlya
and the north point of the Asiatic continent, Cape Chalyaskin.  On the 31st of July the little
fleet was united at Chabarook (Charbarova).  The vessels which had accompanied the Lena and
Vega went up the Yenissei River with cargoes, and returned safely to Norway.  The Vega and
Lena proceeded, and after some delays the North-East Cape (Cape Chalyaskin) was reached for
the first time.  Flags were hoisted and salutes fired to emphasise the fact, and they were
acknowledged by an immense bear that came out upon the ice to welcome the ships.  Hence fogs
and occasional ice-floes hindered the navigation.  Many very interesting scientific searches
were made, and after the 23rd of August the sea was smooth and free from ice up to the delta
of the Lena River.  Here the vessels parted company on the 27th-28th of August, the Lena to
go up the river, while the Vega proceeded alone to the Siberian Islands.

Many interesting remains of the mammoth animals were discovered in these islands, and the supply
of ivory must be very valuable to the seekers. The ice was too rotten to permit of landing,
and the boats could not pass in, so Nordenskiold reluctantly relinquished his intention to
explore those almost unknown islands, and the animal remains which abound there.

The Vega continued her uninterrupted course eastward till the ist of September.  Then snow
fell, and the Bear Islands were covered with the white garment.  The navigation became difficult;
the coast was cautiously skirted till, as September wore on, the nights became too dark for
sailing, and the Vega was obliged to come to an anchor every evening.

On these occasions the natives came and made friends with the voyagers, and subsequently these
Tchuktches welcomed the foreigners.  The description given of the natives and their dwellings
is curious.  They live in large tents, which enclose sleeping-places or a kind of inner chambers,
heated and lighted by an oil lamp.  In these inner rooms the native women sit, with very little
clothing on.  In summer a fire is kept burning in the centre of the hut, and the smoke goes
up through a hole in the roof.  In winter there is no fire, and presumably the hut is closed
against the outer air.  The Greenlanders and Tchuktches use similar household articles: they
trade for needles, knives and tools, linen shirts, etcetera, and especially brandy.  Everyone
smokes tobacco when he or she can obtain it.  When it cannot be had, some herbs are chewed
and smoked, after being dried behind the ears.  Men and women seldom wear head coverings; they
have tunics and trousers of reindeer skin, mocassins or shoes of bear-skin or walrus hide;
the women plait their hair, and wear it long.  The men cut theirs except the outer margin,
which is combed down in a "fringe."  The faces are painted or "tattooed" by both sexes.

The Vega continued her eastward course, meeting with little incident, but continually adding
to the information already acquired.  So on till the 27th of September, when, in the strait
that separates Asia from America--near the entrance of Behring's Strait, the vessel got imprisoned
in the early forming ice.  The rising north wind rapidly piled up the hummocks, and in a short
time all hope of quitting the place until the summer had to be abandoned, but very reluctantly,
by Nordenskiold.  "One single hour's steaming would have probably been sufficient to traverse
the distance" between their position and the open strait, and one day earlier no difficulty
would have presented itself!

This was extremely disappointing, and Nordenskiold writes pathetically about been frozen in
so near the goal he had been so long aiming at.  It was "the one mishap" which had attended
his Arctic exploration.  In this condition the vessel remained for two hundred and sixty-four
days, the time passed nearly in darkness, but not unpleasantly, for the scientist has resources
which set time at defiance.  Good health and spirits were present, and the natives were friendly.
At length deliverance came.  On the 18th of July the Vega was released, and on the 20th she
passed Behring's Straits.  The North-East Passage was an accomplished fact! After a stormy
cruise, in the course of which the ship was struck by lightning, and a voyage of marine discovery
welcome to the civilised world accomplished, the Vega reached Yokohama, whence the electric
current carried the news of Nordenskiold's success from sea to sea.  The homeward journey was
made by the Suez Canal to Europe, where the welcome accorded to the brave explorer was a veritable
triumph.  Nor must those who assisted him be forgotten.  To Mr Oscar Dickson the honour belongs
of holding out the full hand to Nordenskiold, without which his first voyages would never have
been accomplished, and the North-East Passage might be still a mystery.

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR.

CAPTAIN HALL'S VOYAGES.

Doctor Hayes' voyages--Captain Hall's experiences--The Polaris expedition--High latitudes--Illness
and death of Captain Hall--The catastrophe on the ice--Skating on the floe--A perilous journey--Saved--
Fate of the Polaris.

We must pass rapidly by Doctor Hayes' voyages undertaken to survey Greenland.  He fully believed
in the theory of the "open Polar Sea," and he had been a member of Kane's party.  He left Boston
in 1860, and entered Baffin Bay in August of that year.  After much delay from ice, he started
with sleighs across Smith's Sound to Grinnel Land.  He encountered tremendous difficulties--most
of his party turned back, but Hayes, with three men, persevered, and succeeded in reaching
Grinnel Land.  He still pushed on, then with only one companion, and reached the most northerly
point attained, whence he could see water covered with soft ice.  This he states is the open
Polar Sea in the summer.  He saw a headland farther north--"the most northerly land known."
But having no boat he was obliged to return to his companions, and they reached Boston in 1861.
The American Civil War prevented him from trying again for some years, but he subsequently
explored Greenland, more for pleasure than in the interests of science, in 1869.

We now come to the voyages of Captain Charles F. Hall, which culminated in the Polaris expedition.
In 1860, however, Captain Hall had made an attempt to find some traces of the Franklin expedition;
but meeting with an accident, he returned.  In 1864 he sailed again, and reached Hecla Strait.
He carried home many Franklin relics, and ascertained that Sir John had actually discovered
the North-West Passage, and established the melancholy truth that most of Franklin's men died
of starvation in King William's Land, where their bones lay bleaching in the snowy waste. After
five years' residence amongst the Esquimaux he ascertained that Captain Crozier, of the Terror
(and he believed a companion), were living amongst the Esquimaux in 1864.

In September, 1869, Captain Hall returned to America, having discovered the site of Frobisher's
settlement three hundred years before; but it was not until 1872 that he was enabled to start
in the Polaris to find the North Pole.  On the 29th of June he sailed from New York.  Doctor
Bessel accompanied the ship as naturalist, and at least one member of Kane's expedition also
went.  Captain Tyson, who figures in the narrative, joined the Polaris at Godhaven, and Hans,
the hunter, at Upernavik.

On the 21st of August the Polaris continued her voyage, and followed Kane's route.  Captain
Hall reached the spot where the Advance had been quitted, and pushing on steadily, reached
the channel which had been thought was the "open Polar Sea."  He proceeded up to latitude 82
degrees 16 minutes North; but here the Polaris was beset in the ice at last; hitherto all had
been plain sailing.  They reached winter quarters in September, and named the place "Thank
God" Bay, latitude 81 degrees 38 minutes North, longitude 61 degrees 44 minutes West.

The winter was fatal to Captain Hall.  After his return from a few days' sledging journey,
he was suddenly taken ill.  In this exploration, which he undertook with the Esquimaux and
his first mate (Mr Chester), he reached a place he named Newman's Bay, in latitude 82 degrees
North. When the illness first attacked him it was not deemed serious; but he became partially
paralysed, and on the 8th of November he expired, leaving Captain Buddington in command.  Captain
Hall was buried on the morning of the 11th of November, the darkness of the Polar night being
faintly illuminated by ship's lanthorns and the weird boreal gleam of the stars in the atmosphere.

During the remainder of the winter, surveys were made; but Buddington did not continue the
discipline of Hall.  In May, Tyson, Meyers, and the two Esquimaux started on a sledging expedition,
and got some musk oxen. Through these boat-expeditions, during the summer, discipline was greatly
relaxed, and consequently the original plan of the voyage could not be carried out.  The Polaris
on the ice drifted, as other vessels have drifted, and came down Smith's Sound to Kane's former
winter quarters.

A panic occurred in October, which nearly proved fatal to some of the members of the expedition.
The ice "nipped" the Polaris, and it appears, from all accounts, that the ice-master who commanded
(Buddington) completely lost his presence of mind, and commanded a general heaving overboard
of stores and everything on deck.  The order was obeyed, with results as might have been anticipated.
The ice was broken up by the lifting and settling of the ship.  The stores were scattered broadcast
on the floe, and Captain Tyson, with a few of the most sensible men, left the vessel to arrange
the stores, with the Esquimaux and their wives and children as assistants in the work.

They were all very busy sorting the supplies when a terrible rending and cracking was heard.
Explosion succeeded explosion--the ice opened in many places--the Polaris was freed; and in
a few moments, before the people on the ice could return, or indeed realise the situation,
she had plunged into the darkness and disappeared!

This was a terrible catastrophe.  There were nineteen men, women, and children actually adrift
upon a mass of ice, with a very limited supply of provisions; and the only means of gaining
terra firma two small boats.  These were got ready, but the loose ice rendered their use impossible.
The Polaris came in sight, but paid no attention to signals.  So the voyagers remained drifting
on the ice-floe, about four miles in circumference, but by no means assured from disruption,
which might occur at any moment.

The ice continued to drift, and now and then pieces broke off.  On the 16th the dreaded event
occurred--the floe parted--the castaway party on one side, and the house, etcetera, on the
other.  But by means of the boats the stores were recovered, and then a fresh floe was occupied,
whereon snow-huts were erected, Esquimaux fashion.

Time passed.  October went and November came; food was scarce, and the exploring party were
"allowanced."  But two seals, less cautious than their companions, were at length captured--nearly
all the dogs had already been eaten, and fresh food was absolutely necessary.  The seals caught
were scientifically killed, the blood was drunk, and "the eyes," says Captain Tyson, "given
to the youngest child."  (The animal, being cut up, is divided into portions which are distributed
by lot to the various candidates for the delicate morsels, of which the brain is considered
the daintiest.)

We need scarcely detail the daily round and common tasks of the drifting party on the ice.
In January Davis Strait was reached, and a ray of sunlight cheered them on the 19th, so the
progress southward had been considerable.  The German seamen did not behave well and caused
considerable anxiety, but there was no long disturbance.

At the beginning of the month of March the ice reached Cumberland Gulf, and on the 11th of
that month it broke up with direful noises, leaving the whole party on a small piece, which
being fortunately very thick continued its journey southward very gently.  Seals were now captured
in abundance.  One of the Esquimaux also shot a bear.  Then the floe was quitted, and the pack
ice reached.  After that things became worse.  A gale arose and blew away their tent and bedding,
and unless they had all clung to the boat it would have been lost also.  They saved it, but
remained without shelter, half-frozen and in danger of starvation.  At the end of April three
steamers successively appeared, but although the castaways did all they could to attract attention
they were not perceived until on the 30th another "steam sealer," the Tigress, of Newfoundland,
appeared and rescued them from their perilous position. They were all landed at Saint John's
on the 12th of May.

Meanwhile, as the Polaris had not appeared, the Tigress was commissioned by Captain Green,
U.S.N., to seek her.  She steamed up to Littleton Island, where an encampment of Esquimaux
was discovered.  The men were wearing clothing obtained from the Polaris, but after search
and inquiry no after trace of the crew could be obtained, so Captain Green returned to Saint
John's.  They reached New York afterwards, and heard that Buddington and his crew had been
picked up by a whaler some months before.

The ill-fated Polaris had been abandoned in latitude 78 degrees 23 minutes North, and 73 degrees
21 minutes West.  She had been rendered almost useless by the ice, and the Esquimaux were presented
with the hull; but she foundered.  The crew encamped during the winter, and in the summer they
sailed down to Cape York, where they met the ice.  But in Melville Bay a steamer was seen embedded
in the ice.  This vessel was the Ravenscraig, of Dundee, whose Captain, Allen, received them
very kindly.  He subsequently put some of them on a vessel bound for Dundee, whither they then
proceeded, and came home from Liverpool to New York; the others came back a few weeks later.
Thus ended the unfortunate Polaris expedition, which, but for the untimely death of Captain
F. Hall, might have accomplished its object--the discovery of the North Pole.

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE.

CAPTAIN SIR GEORGE S. NARES' VOYAGE WITH THE "ALERT" AND "DISCOVERY"-- 1875-6.

The Alert and Discovery--Heavy weather--Arrival in Greenland--Winter on the ice--Amusements
and employments--Sledging work--The return home-- Reception--Conclusion.

In 1875 the British Government commissioned the Alert and the Discovery, under the command
respectively of Captains Nares and Stephenson, to explore the Arctic regions of the Pole. 
This expedition was fitted out in the most complete manner, and had the advantage of the advice
and assistance of the most experienced Arctic travellers. Commander Markham, who was attached
to the Alert, had crossed the Arctic circle before, as had Captain Nares, and all that could
be done was done to make the voyage a success.

Sir George Nares had already seen considerable Arctic and sea service. His scientific voyage
in the Challenger, too, had given him an unlimited fund of experience, in addition to his previous
geographical attainments.  Captain H. Stephenson also had proved his mettle in many parts of
the world, and under these commanders were many trustworthy and experienced officers.  The
expedition quitted Portsmouth amid enthusiastic cheers on the 29th of May, 1875, and made their
way across the Atlantic.  Here they met with most violent storms, which tried both ships and
ships' companies, as well as the Valorous store ship, which parted company in the ocean.  The
first ice was seen on the 27th of June, and the Valorous was picked up again all well.

Skirting the Greenland coast amid the ice, the vessels encountered heavy weather, and at length
anchored in Godhaven Harbour, in the Isle of Disco.  Here supplies and sledge dogs were embarked,
and on the 15th of July the Alert towed the Discovery out of harbour, and proceeded northwards.
They reached Upernavik and left it.  Soon afterwards the Alert grounded, but cleared at high
water.  Cape York was gained in seventy hours, an extremely rapid passage.  The Alert passed
on by the Crimson Cliffs and Cape Digges, which have been so often mentioned, and reached the
Cary Islands on the 27th of July.  Depots were formed here and records placed with letters,
as also on Sutherland and Littleton Islands.  The advance into Smith's Sound was by no means
easy, and several times the ships had to return to the latitude of Kane's winter quarters.

About this time the Alert was nearly crushed by an iceberg, but got clear, and the crew made
the mountain tow the vessel by grappling it. By very slow degrees, pushing and driving through
the "pack," the vessels at last reached Cape Constitution, to which Doctor Kane had penetrated,
but which he did not pass.  Going still northwards the ships cleared Kennedy Channel and reached
Hall's Basin, in the north-east side of which were the winter quarters of the unfortunate Polaris.
Robeson Channel had now to be cleared.

All this time the officers and men who could be spared from duty were not idle.  Parties went
hunting and sketching.  Many scientific observations were made by dredging.  Photographs were
taken also.  The Musk ox gave the hunters some sport, and Doctor Moss records that all the
animals met with, though presumably they had never seen man before, were afraid of the party,
thus contradicting the popular notion that animals which have never seen man are not afraid of him.

At this stage of the journey excellent winter quarters were found for the Discovery.  The retreat
of the ships had been secured.  Orders were for the Discovery to remain in or about the eighty-second
parallel.  Such a situation was now found.  The Discovery therefore remained just north of
Lady Franklin Strait, on the opposite side of Hall's Basin, to that on which the Polaris wintered.

On the 26th of August the Alert proceeded alone into Robeson Channel, but got into difficulties
with the ice, which bore down on the ship in tremendous masses.  But fortunately she found
shelter, and escaped destruction.  Any further progress appeared impossible, so preparations
were made for forming the winter quarters near at hand.  As September had come the sledges
were got ready, and Commander Markham set out with stores to establish a depot for the spring
exploring parties farther north.  The party returned in three weeks frost-bitten and exhausted,
but they had accomplished their mission.  Lieutenant Aldrich had also come back, but reported
nothing but ice.

Attempts were made to communicate with the Discovery, but the state of the ice and snow prevented
any such adventure, though Captain Stephenson was only sixty miles distant.  Winter now set
in, and the Alert was banked in snow.  Candles and stoves and snow kept the inhabitants warm,
and snow-houses were erected for scientific and storage purposes.  The prospect afforded a
view of limitless snow, and then darkness set in and limited the view to a few yards, except
when the oft-recurring moon gave her welcome light.  Doctor Moss, in his journal, gives a spirited
description of the daily routine, which we condense.  The cold was intense--the greatest ever
experienced (73 degrees).

The toilet is rapidly performed, a tub is a weekly luxury.  The men have breakfasted, and the
rattling of cups and saucers warns the officers curried-sardine day has come round again! 
Cocoa is ready and hot rolls. Then the men have lime-juice and hot water for health's sake.
Afterwards all hands parade on deck for inspection and prayers.  Then work begins.  Water is
procured from ice, tools mended, etcetera.  The crew dine at one o'clock, the officers at 2:30.
The latter go for a walk or rehearse theatricals.  Going out, the air smells like green walnuts,
says Doctor Moss.  The walk, unless there is a moon, is taken up and down a beaten track, in
the dark, half a mile long.  The dinner gong sounds, all come in (brushing off the snow first).
Then dinner, and when the cloth is off the white cat seats herself on the table. After dinner
reading or writing, then school for the men; and music, chess or whist concluding the evening.

The Alert had no sun for a hundred and forty-two days, and the darkness was nearly as deep
at noonday as an ordinary moonless night in England.  On the 2nd of March the sun shone brightly,
and the sledging was arranged for.  The theatrical season had ended on the 24th of February.
Many favourite farces were played, and the burlesque written by the chaplain met with great
success.

A sledge party left to find the Discovery, but returned exhausted, and Petersen was nearly
lost.  He afterwards died, poor fellow, and was buried by his comrades on Cairn Hill, on the
14th of May.  We have not space to follow all the sledging expeditions.  We must condense the
information and the interest.  For two months and a half this, the most monotonous of all travelling,
was continued.  The labour was most severe and incessant, the distance made only a mile or
two a day.  Scurvy began its ravages, and the northern expedition had been nearly overcome,
when Lieutenant Parr returned to the ship for assistance.  Summer had arrived by this time.
Immediate help was dispatched, but it was no easy task to find the men.  Four of the party
were alive, one had died.  The sick man had been dragged on the sledge thirty-nine days, and
they had buried him after all in a solitary spot in the far north--"a paddle and a batten"
made a rude cross, and the sketch shows it most effectively in Doctor Moss's book.  Five only
of the seventeen of the party came back in working condition, and they were nearly exhausted.

The question now arose whether the Alert should remain, advance, or retreat.  It was impossible
to advance more than a few miles--the crew was suffering--and retirement was the most sensible
act.  So the vessel rejoined the Discovery, some of whose men had not returned, and great anxiety
was manifested concerning them.  At length the party appeared, after an absence of one hundred
and thirty days.

From Discovery Bay they struggled south in company, racing against winter.  On the 9th of September
Cape Isabella (Smith's Sound) came in sight.  Here letters were found which had been left by
the Pandora. These were a cause of great joy, and when Disco was reached, and some coal procured,
the explorers felt almost at home.  On the 2nd of October the ships sailed for England.  The
Alert anchored at Valentia on the 27th of October, and the Discovery in Bantry Bay on the 29th.

A great deal had been accomplished by this expedition.  The Alert had explored the west coast
for two hundred and twenty miles, the Discovery had surveyed the Greenland coast, and Captain
Stephenson placed a tablet over the grave of the brave Captain Hall of the Polaris, with a
suitable inscription.  The Alert men had attained the highest latitude ever reached, viz, 82
degrees 27 minutes North. The idea of the open Polar Sea then received its "quietus," for nothing
but ice is there.

The Queen commanded the Admiralty to thank Captain Nares and the officers and men under his
command, and Captain Nares was knighted. Some little dissatisfaction was expressed, but the
effects of the work so ably done quickly extinguished any hostile feeling.

In concluding these Notable (Polar) Voyages we regret we cannot find space to relate the adventures
of the plucky Pandora (afterwards the Jeannette), the Eira expedition, and others of less importance
which have been undertaken since 1875.  The Alert has lately been presented to the United States
Government for their Arctic expedition, of which we shall soon hear something.

There are many chapters yet to be written concerning maritime discovery, but those we have
selected appear to us to embody the greatest interest for our readers, for public curiosity
and assistance has been lately so often directed to the Arctic which are slowly yielding their
secrets to the enterprise of modern scientific and naval explorers.