"My girl," Evellin would often say to Isabel, "the King must be re-instated on his throne,
or England will fall from her rank among the nations. The standard of public morals must be
reduced, the mode of thinking be changed, the very aspect of Englishmen undergo a revolution
before the race of this upstart Despot can take root in this island. We have been accustomed
to look up to our governors as great and good; at least they were surrounded by a blaze of
ancestry and dignity of manners congenial to our feelings of the prescriptive claims of hereditary
rights. We must be all mercenary soldiers, wild fanatics, pensioned informers, or feudal serfs
toiling for daily bread, ere we can patiently endure this revolting system of jealousy and
suspicion--this cold, selfish scheme of trick and expedient. Astonishment and terror may awhile
paralyze the national spirit; the remembered miseries of civil war may render the phantom of
peace so alluring as to induce many to call a deleterious intoxication felicity. But unless
Cromwell can obliterate every record of what Englishmen were in past ages--unless he can make
us forget the education, opinions, and hopes of our youth--the labours, sorrows, and wrongs
of our riper years--his meanness and his crimes;--never--never can the British lion crouch
at an Usurper's form, or the red-cross banner wave graceful over a traitor's head."

Colonel Evellin was roused from these agreeable reveries by a painful communication from Williams.
The means of access which the royalists now had to Cromwell's councils enabled them to discover
that the vigilance of Morgan had brought together so many charges against Dr. Beaumont, that
there seeming no chance of his escaping condemnation, it was resolved to bring him to trial.
Williams could not distinctly make out the crimes with which he was charged, except that he
assisted the late and present King with money; that he used the Liturgy and Church ceremonies
with such slight alterations as did not prevent their continuing to be that "form of words"
and "will-worship" which were forbidden to saints; added to this, he prayed for Charles Stewart;
and further, there were secret counsels and mysterious contrivances in the family. A private
chamber had also been found, which, it was evident, had been used for the purpose of concealing
malignants. The safety of the state required that these practices should be searched into,
and that Dr. Beaumont should be tried for contumacy to the government.

This was all Williams could discover; but beside this open attack, there was a mine ready to
be sprung for the Doctor's destruction. Lord Bellingham had now lain several years in confinement.
His party was believed to be subdued, and his own reputation was so tarnished that he was become
quite innoxious. Overtures were now made to him, that he should be restored to liberty, and
to a part of his possessions; but it was hinted at the same time that it would show his acquiescence
with the existing government if he would take an active part against an atrocious royalist.
The sudden and mysterious disappearance of his son (of whom he had heard no tidings since the
battle of Preston) was mentioned; and it was soon understood that it was expected he should
bring the charge of assassination against Dr. Beaumont, and thus remove all odium from Cromwell.
Solitude and confinement had wrought no salutary change on this wretched man's disposition.
His prison-hours were occupied by regrets for the past, distaste at the present, and fears
for the future. His affections clung fondly to the wealth and title he had lost; nor could
his guilty soul disrobe itself "of those lendings" which vitiated its spiritual essence. If
he were again placed in Bellingham-Castle he would repent. He would then devote a large proportion
of his dearly-purchased estate to charitable purposes; he would seek for Allan Neville and
his daughter; were they alive, he would make them happy, or at least place them in affluence;
he would erect a monument to the gallant Eustace; he would employ his future life in pious
duties; in fine, if restored to the enjoyment of the unrighteous Mammon, he would use it in
securing an everlasting inheritance. No angel whispered, "Begin the mighty labour now;" no
renovating change took place in his desires. The hour of contrition and repentance was deferred
with procrastinating insincerity. Can we then wonder that the man who, in his youth, sacrificed
honour and friendship to purchase worldly grandeur, should, in his age, again impawn his conscience
for liberty and ease? or that, though he had indeed often deplored the supposed necessity of
murdering Eustace Evellin, he should basely yield to become a Tyrant's instrument to cut off
that Eustace's uncle on a charge, which, from what he knew of the Doctor's conduct, bore improbability
and ingratitude in its aspect. Let those who condemn Lord Bellingham beware how they yield
to the first temptations of guilt. The emulation of an aspiring mind, unchecked by principle,
degenerated into envy, hatred, malice, injustice, falsehood, and cruelty. Love for a beautiful
woman was polluted by an insatiable craving to rise to the same sphere of life in which she
moved; and as it was her exterior loveliness, not her inward graces, that inflamed his desires,
he scrupled not to become the instrument of her bad passion; that "love might revel on the
couch of state," he performed actions which stamped ignominy on his name, and destroyed his
peace for ever; and now, in the decline of life, though satiety had taught him the little value
of all temporal enjoyments, his imagination clung to the dispersing shadows which even experience
would not convince him were only phantoms of happiness. Even while he wept the offences he
had committed, he yielded to the first temptation to repeat his crimes.

On the morning fixed for his trial, Dr. Beaumont exhibited an illustration of the scriptural
precept, by combining the wisdom of the serpent with the innocence of the dove. Serene, mild,
thoughtful, acute, and penetrating, he was capable of using every fair occasion to elude his
enemies, and was able also to submit to the will of Heaven, provided their malice should be
permitted to triumph. He prepared Constantia for the worst, by assuring her that so many had
unjustly suffered in these perturbed times that condemnation was no longer considered as an
evidence of guilt. All the disgrace of a public death was removed by the justice of the cause
to which he was ready to fall a martyr; and the mere circumstance of his dying as a malefactor
ought not to distress her, since, in the article of pain, he should endure much less; and the
awakening trial of imprisonment had afforded him leisure to re-consider his ways, and make
his peace with God. This singular blessing had supplied the best uses of sickness, without
its frequent attendant, bodily incapacity. He reminded her of his declining years. "My enemies,"
said he, "can only rob me of the dregs of life. Death hath sent many of his forerunners by
the hand of time to inform me that my days are drawing to a close. It was my wish to be useful
as long as I lived. The new government have done me the honour to think me dangerous. When
they immured me in a prison, I considered the loss of liberty as a quietus from my heavenly
King, dismissing me from active employments; and I have since endeavoured to improve myself
in the practice of those passive virtues which are never enough prized by the world, and which
are often painful rather than pleasant. I have endeavoured after the perfection of patience,
humility, and submission; but, my Constantia, I have only endeavoured, and have discovered
so many unsubdued weaknesses, such a lingering fondness for what I must renounce, that I fear
nothing but the cold chill of death will benumb those ardent affections which have often led
me to lament (but, I trust, not to repine) that I was born in these unhappy times. To the last
I must bemoan the degradation, and crimes of my country, that beloved England, whom, in the
humble sphere of a village-rector, I laboured to serve, by making all whom my counsels and
example could influence, faithful servants of their God and their King. I feel too the destitution
of my family (here he faultered and turned aside his face)--principally thee, poor mourner,
tenderly fostered in thine infancy, and, since then, the child of sorrow. Encourage me by thy
firmness, now I am on the eve of the most awful occurence of my life. Imitate the cheerful
magnanimity of Isabel. Let me not shudder at the thought of leaving thee a weak, heart-broken
burden on those who can only pity thy distress; but let me have the comfort of hoping that
thou wilt behave like a resigned Christian, who, art not so depressed by a sense of thy own
grief, as to be incapable of ministering to the woes of others. Allow me to think of thee as
one whose views are not bounded by the grave, and then I shall have no overwhelming terrors
to distract my attention, or unfit me for improving every fair opportunity for my deliverance.
But, should the worst happen, remember, Constantia, I shall continue to exist. Putting on the
garment of immortality does not destroy identity. We shall still continue members of that large
family of whom God is the head, the angels being his more exalted servants, and the infernal
spirits potent rebels, who in vain labour to defeat his purposes. No event can remove us from
the superintendance of Providence; no distance of time or country, no difference of station
or fortune, can hinder the glorified spirits of the faithful from meeting in the same paradise,
and hearing the same joyful sentence of eternal beatitude. Whether the disembodied souls left
their bodies in the north or in the south, they will all rejoice in the society of each other.
The spirits of the patriarchs of old, as well as of those who die to-day in the Lord, will
meet in one large community. Console thyself, therefore, with the thought of a future, joyful,
and eternal re-union; and let that consolation be also an active precept, teaching thee so
to order thy daily conversation as to complete thy fitness for that re-union."

