The man she loved would not be shot like the wretched Bedouin, who was of no importance except
to her for whom his life was given; but something would happen. He would be taken ill with
a strange disease, of which he would die after dreadful suffering; or at best his career would
be ruined; for the greatest of all marabouts was a man of immense influence. Because of his
religious vow to wear a mask always like a Touareg, none of the ruling race had ever seen the
marabout's features, yet his power was known far and wide--in Morocco; all along the caravan
route to Tombouctou; in the capital of the Touaregs; in Algiers; and even in Paris itself.

She reminded herself of these things, and at one moment her heart was like ice in her breast;
but at the next, it was like a ball of fire; and pulling out three long bright hairs from her
head, she twisted them round the cord which the carrier-pigeon had brought. Before tying it
under his wing again, she scattered more yellow seeds for the dove Imams, because she did not
want them to fly away until she was ready to let her messenger go. Thus there was the less
danger that the carrier-pigeon would be noticed. Only Noura, her negress, knew of him. Noura
had smuggled him into the Zaouïa, and she herself had trained him by giving him food that he
liked, though his home was at Oued Tolga, the town.

The birds from the mosque had waited for their second supply, for the same programme had been
carried out many times before, and they had learned to expect it.

When they finished scrambling for the grain which the white pigeon could afford to scorn, they
fluttered back to the minaret, following a leader. But the carrier flew away straight and far,
his little body vanishing at last as if swallowed up in the gold of the sunset. For he went
west, towards the white domes of Oued Tolga.

XXXIV

Still the woman stood looking after the bird, but the sun had dropped behind the dunes, and
she no longer needed to shade her eyes with her hand. There was nothing more to expect till
sunset to-morrow, when something might or might not happen. If no message came, then there
would be only dullness and stagnation until the day when the Moorish bath was sacredly kept
for the great ladies of the marabout's household. There were but two of these, yet they never
went to the bath together, nor had they ever met or spoken to one another. They were escorted
to the bath by their attendants at different hours of the same day; and later their female
servants were allowed to go, for no one but the women of the saintly house might use the baths
that day.

The woman on the white roof in the midst of the golden silence gazed towards the west, though
she looked for no event of interest; and her eyes fixed themselves mechanically upon a little
caravan which moved along the yellow sand like a procession of black insects. She was so accustomed
to search the desert since the days, long ago, when she had actually hoped for friends to come
and take her away, that she could differentiate objects at greater distances than one less
trained to observation. Hardly thinking of the caravan, she made out, nevertheless, that it
consisted of two camels, carrying bassourahs, a horse and Arab rider, a brown pack camel, and
a loaded mule, driven by two men who walked.

They had evidently come from Oued Tolga, or at least from that direction, therefore it was
probable that their destination was the Zaouïa; otherwise, as it was already late, they would
have stopped in the city all night. Of course, it was possible that they were on their way
to the village, but it was a poor place, inhabited by very poor people, many of them freed
Negroes, who worked in the oases and lived mostly upon dates. No caravans ever went out from
there, because no man, even the richest, owned more than one camel or donkey; and nobody came
to stay, unless some son of the miserable hamlet, who had made a little money elsewhere, and
returned to see his relatives. But on the other hand, numerous caravans arrived at the Zaouïa
of Oued Tolga, and hundreds of pilgrims from all parts of Islam were entertained as the marabout's
guests, or as recipients of charity.

Dimly, as she detached her mind from the message she had sent, the woman began to wonder about
this caravan, because of the bassourahs, which meant that there were women among the travellers.
There were comparatively few women pilgrims to the Zaouïa, except invalids from the town of
Oued Tolga, or some Sahara encampment, who crawled on foot, or rode decrepit donkeys, hoping
to be cured of ailments by the magic power of the marabout, the power of the Baraka. The woman
who watched had learned by this time not to expect European tourists. She had lived for eight
years in the Zaouïa, and not once had she seen from her roof a European, except a French government-official
or two, and a few--a very few--French officers. Never had any European women come. Tourists
were usually satisfied with Touggourt, three or four days nearer civilisation. Women did not
care to undertake an immense and fatiguing journey among the most formidable dunes of the desert,
where there was nothing but ascending and descending, day after day; where camels sometimes
broke their legs in the deep sand, winding along the fallen side of a mountainous dune, and
where a horse often had to sit on his haunches, and slide with his rider down a sand precipice.

She herself had experienced all these difficulties, so long ago now that she had half forgotten
how she had hated them, and the fate to which they were leading her. But she did not blame
other women for not coming to Oued Tolga.

Occasionally some caïd or agha of the far south would bring his wife who was ill or childless
to be blessed by the marabout; and in old days they had been introduced to the marabouta, but
it was years now since she had been asked, or even allowed, to entertain strangers. She thought,
without any active interest, as she looked at the nodding bassourahs, growing larger and larger,
that a chief was coming with his women, and that he would be disappointed to learn that the
marabout was away from home. It was rather odd that the stranger had not been told in the city,
for every one knew that the great man had gone a fortnight ago to the province of Oran. Several
days must pass before he could return, even if, for any reason, he came sooner than he was
expected. But it did not matter much to her, if there were to be visitors who would have the
pain of waiting. There was plenty of accommodation for guests, and there were many servants
whose special duty it was to care for strangers. She would not see the women in the bassourahs,
nor hear of them unless some gossip reached her through the talk of the negresses.

Still, as there was nothing else which she wished to do, she continued to watch the caravan.

By and by it passed out of sight, behind the rising ground on which the village huddled, with
its crowding brown house-walls that narrowed towards the roofs. The woman almost forgot it,
until it appeared again, to the left of the village, where palm logs had been laid in the river
bed, making a kind of rough bridge, only covered when the river was in flood. It was certain
now that the travellers were coming to the Zaouïa.

The flame of the sunset had died, though clouds purple as pansies flowered in the west. The
gold of the dunes paled to silver, and the desert grew sad, as if it mourned for a day that
would never live again. Far away, near Oued Tolga, where the white domes of the city and the
green domes of the oasis palms all blended together in shadow, fires sprang up in the camps
of nomads, like signals of danger.

The woman on the roof shivered. The chill of the coming night cooled her excitement. She was
afraid of the future, and the sadness which had fallen upon the desert was cold in her heart.
The caravan was not far from the gate of the Zaouïa, but she was tired of watching it. She
turned and went down the narrow stairs that led to her rooms, and to the little garden where
the fragrance of orange blossoms was too sweet.

XXXV

The caravan stopped in front of the Zaouïa gate. There were great iron doors in a high wall
of toub, which was not much darker in colour than the deep gold of the desert sand; and because
it was after sunset the doors were closed.

One of the Negroes knocked, and called out something inarticulate and guttural in a loud voice.

Almost at once the gate opened, and a shadowy figure hovered inside. A name was announced,
which was instantly shouted to a person unseen, and a great chattering began in the dusk. Men
ran out, and one or two kissed the hand of the rider on the white horse. They explained volubly
that the lord was away, but the newcomer checked them as soon as he could, saying that he had
heard the news in the city. He had with him ladies, one a relative of his own, another who
was connected with the great lord himself, and they must be entertained as the lord would wish,
were he not absent.

The gates, or doors, of iron were thrown wide open, and the little procession entered a huge
open court. On one side was accommodation for many animals, as in a caravanserai, with a narrow
roof sheltering thirty or forty stalls; and here the two white meharis were made to kneel,
that the women might descend from their bassourahs. There were three, all veiled, but the arms
of one were bare and very brown. She moved stiffly, as if cramped by sitting for a long time
in one position; nevertheless, she supported her companion, whose bassour she had shared. The
two Soudanese Negroes remained in this court with their animals, which the servants of the
Zaouïa, began helping them to unload; but the master of the expedition, with the two ladies
of his party and Fafann, was now obliged to walk. Several men of the Zaouïa acted as their
guides, gesticulating with great respect, but lowering their eyelids, and appearing not to
see the women.

They passed through another court, very large, though not so immense as the first, for no animals
were kept there. Instead of stalls for camels and horses, there were roughly built rooms for
pilgrims of the poorer class, with little, roofless, open-sided kitchens, where they could
cook their own food. Beyond was the third court, with lodging for more important persons, and
then the travellers were led through a labyrinth of corridors, some roofed with palm branches,
others open to the air, and still more covered in with the toub blocks of which the walls were
built. Along the sides were crumbling benches of stucco, on which old men lay rolled up in
their burnouses; or here and there a door of rotting palm wood hung half open, giving a glimpse
into a small, dim court, duskily red with the fire of cooking in an open-air kitchen. From
behind these doors came faint sounds of chanting, and spicy smells of burning wood and boiling
peppers. It was like passing through a subterranean village; and little dark children, squatting
in doorways, or flattening their bodies against palm trunks which supported palm roofs, or
flitting ahead of the strangers, in the thick, musky scented twilight, were like shadowy gnomes.

By and by, as the newcomers penetrated farther into the mysterious labyrinth of the vast Zaouïa,
the corridors and courts became less ruined in appearance. The walls were whitewashed; the
palm-wood doors were roughly carved and painted in bright colours, which could be seen by the
flicker of lamps set high in little niches. Each tunnel-like passage had a carved archway at
the end, and at last they entered one which was closed in with beautiful doors of wrought iron.

Through the rich network they could see into a court where everything glimmered white in moonlight.
They had come to the court of the mosque, which had on one side an entrance to the private
house of the marabout, the great Sidi El Hadj Mohammed ben Abd-el-Kader.

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

"Lella Saïda, oh light of the young moon, if it please thee, thou hast two guests come from
very far off," announced an old negress to the woman who had been looking out over the golden
silence of the desert.

It was an hour since she had come down from the roof, and having eaten a little bread, with
soup, she lay on a divan writing in a small book. Several tall copper lamps with open-work
copper shades, jewelled and fringed with coloured glass, gave a soft and beautiful light to
the room. It had pure white walls, round which, close to the ceiling, ran a frieze of Arab
lettering, red, and black, and gold. The doors and window-blinds and little cupboards were
of cedar, so thickly inlaid with mother-o'-pearl, that only dark lines of the wood defined
the white patterning of leaves and flowers.

The woman had thrown off the blue drapery that had covered her head, and her auburn hair glittered
in the light of the lamp by which she wrote. She looked up, vexed.

"Thou knowest, Noura, that for years I have received no guests," she said, in a dialect of
the Soudan, in which most Saharian mistresses of Negro servants learn to talk. "I can see no
one. The master would not permit me to do so, even if I wished it, which I do not."

"Pardon, loveliest lady. But this is another matter. A friend of our lord brings these visitors
to thee. One is kin of his. She seeks to be healed of a malady, by the power of the Baraka.
But the other is a Roumia."

The wife of the great marabout shut the book in which she had been writing, and her mind travelled
quickly to the sender of the carrier-pigeon. A European woman, the first who had ever come
to the Zaouïa in eight years! It must be that she had a message from him. Somehow he had contrived
this visit. She dared ask no more questions.

"I will see these ladies," she said. "Let them come to me here."

"Already the old one is resting in the guest-house," answered the negress. "She has her own
servant, and she asks to see thee no earlier than to-morrow, when she has rested, and is able
to pay thee her respects. It is the other, the young Roumia, who begs to speak with thee to-night."

The wife of the marabout was more certain than ever that her visitor must come from the sender
of the pigeon. She was glad of an excuse to talk with his messenger alone, without waiting.

"Go fetch her," she directed. "And when thou hast brought her to the door I shall no longer
need thee, Noura."

Her heart was beating fast. She dreaded some final decision, or the need to make a decision,
yet she knew that she would be bitterly disappointed if, after all, the European woman were
not what she thought. She shut up the diary in which she wrote each night, and opening one
of the wall cupboards near her divan, she put it away on a shelf, where there were many other
small volumes, a dozen perhaps. They contained the history of her life during the last nine
years, since unhappiness had isolated her, and made it necessary to her peace of mind, almost
to her sanity, to have a confidant. She closed the inlaid doors of the cupboard, and locked
them with a key which hung from a ribbon inside her dress.

Such a precaution was hardly needed, since the writing was all in English, and she had recorded
the events of the last few weeks cautiously and cryptically. Not a soul in the marabout's house
could read English, except the marabout himself; and it was seldom he honoured her with a visit.
Nevertheless, it had become a habit to lock up the books, and she found a secretive pleasure in it.

She had only time to slip the ribbon back into her breast, and sit down stiffly on the divan,
when the door was opened again by Noura.

"O Lella Saïda, I have brought the Roumia," the negress announced.

A slim figure in Arab dress came into the room, unfastening a white veil with fingers that
trembled with impatience. The door shut softly. Noura had obeyed instructions.

XXXVI

For ten years Victoria had been waiting for this moment, dreaming of it at night, picturing
it by day. Now it had come.

There was Saidee standing before her, found at last. Saidee, well and safe, and lovely as ever,
hardly changed in feature, and yet--there was something strange about her, something which
stopped the joyous beating of the girl's heart. It was almost as if she had died and come to
Heaven, to find that Heaven was not Heaven at all, but a cold place of fear.

She was shocked at the impression, blaming herself. Surely Saidee did not know her yet, that
was all; or the surprise was too great. She wished she had sent word by the negress. Though
that would have seemed banal, it would have been better than to see the blank look on Saidee's
face, a look which froze her into a marble statue. But it was too late now. The only thing
left was to make the best of a bad beginning.

"Oh, darling!" Victoria cried. "Have I frightened you? Dearest--my beautiful one, it's your
little sister. All these years I've been waiting--waiting to find a way. You knew I would come
some day, didn't you?"

Tears poured down her face. She tried to believe they were tears of joy, such as she had often
thought to shed at sight of Saidee. She had been sure that she could not keep them back, and
that she would not try. They should have been sweet as summer rain, but they burned her eyes
and her cheeks as they fell. Saidee was silent. The girl held out her arms, running a step
or two, then, faltering, she let her arms fall. They felt heavy and stiff, as if they had been
turned to wood. Saidee did not move. There was an expression of dismay, even of fear on her face.

"You don't know me!" Victoria said chokingly. "I've grown up, and I must seem like a different
person--but I'm just the same, truly. I've loved you so, always. You'll get used to seeing
me changed. You--you don't think I'm somebody else pretending to be Victoria, do you? I can
tell you all the things we used to do and say. I haven't forgotten one. Oh, Saidee, dearest,
I've come such a long way to find you. Do be glad to see me--do!"

Her voice broke. She put out her hands pleadingly--the childish hands that had seemed pathetically
pretty to Stephen Knight.

A look of intense concentration darkened Saidee's eyes. She appeared to question herself, to
ask her intelligence what was best to do. Then the tense lines of her face softened. She forced
herself to smile, and leaning towards Victoria, clasped the slim white figure in her arms,
holding it tightly, in silence. But over the girl's shoulder, her eyes still seemed to search
an answer to their question.

When she had had time to control her voice and expression, she spoke, releasing her sister,
taking the wistful face between her hands, and gazing at it earnestly. Then she kissed lips
and cheeks.

"Victoria!" she murmured. "Victoria! I'm not dreaming you?"

"No, no, darling," the girl answered, more hopefully. "No wonder you're dazed. This--finding
you, I mean--has been the object of my life, ever since your letters stopped coming, and I
began to feel I'd lost you. That's why I can't realize your being struck dumb with the surprise
of it. Somehow, I've always felt you'd be expecting me. Weren't you? Didn't you know I'd come
when I could?"

Saidee shook her head, looking with extraordinary, almost feverish, interest at the younger
girl, taking in every detail of feature and complexion, all the exquisite outlines of extreme
youth, which she had lost.

"No," she said slowly. "I thought I was dead to the world. I didn't think it would be possible
for anyone to find me, even you."

"But--you are glad--now I'm here?" Victoria faltered.

"Of course," Saidee answered unhesitatingly. "I'm delighted--enchanted--for my own sake. If
I'm frightened, if you think me strange--farouche--it's because I'm so surprised, and because--can
you believe it?--this is the first time I've spoken English with any human being for nine years--perhaps
more. I almost forget--it seems a century. I talk to myself--so as not to forget. And every
night I write down what has happened, or rather what I've thought, because things hardly ever
do happen here. The words don't come easily. They sound so odd in my own ears. And then--there's
another reason why I'm afraid. It's on your account. I'd better tell you. It wouldn't be fair
not to tell. I--how are you going to get away again?"

She almost whispered the last words, and spoke them as if she were ashamed. But she watched
the girl's face anxiously.

Victoria slipped a protecting arm round her waist. "We are going away together, dearest," she
said. "Unless you're too happy and contented. But, my Saidee--you don't look contented."

Saidee flushed faintly. "You mean--I look old--haggard?"

"No--no!" the girl protested. "Not that. You've hardly changed at all, except--oh, I hardly
know how to put it in words. It's your expression. You look sad--tired of the things around you."

"I am tired of the things around me," Saidee said. "Often I've felt like a dead body in a grave
with no hope of even a resurrection. What were those lines of Christina Rossetti's I used to
say over to myself at first, while it still seemed worth while to revolt? Some one was buried,
had been buried for years, yet could think and feel, and cry out against the doom of lying
'under this marble stone, forgotten, alone.' Doesn't it sound agonizing--desperate? It just
suited me. But now--now----"

"Are things better? Are you happier?" Victoria clasped her sister passionately.

"No. Only I'm past caring so much. If you've come here, Babe, to take me away, it's no use.
I may as well tell you now. This is prison. And you must escape, yourself, before the gaoler
comes back, or it will be a life-sentence for you, too."

It warmed Victoria's heart that her sister should call her "Babe"--the old pet name which brought
the past back so vividly, that her eyes filled again with tears.

"You shall not be kept in prison!" she exclaimed. "It's monstrous--horrible! I was afraid it
would be like this. That's why I had to wait and make plenty of money. Dearest, I'm rich. Everything's
for you. You taught me to dance, and it's by dancing I've earned such a lot--almost a fortune.
So you see, it's yours. I've got enough to bribe Cassim to let you go, if he likes money, and
isn't kind to you. Because, if he isn't kind, it must be a sign he doesn't love you, really."

Saidee laughed, a very bitter laugh. "He does like money. And he doesn't like me at all--any more."

"Then--" Victoria's face brightened--"then he will take the ten thousand dollars I've brought,
and he'll let you go away with me."

"Ten thousand dollars!" Saidee laughed again. "Do you know who Cassim--as you call him--is?"

The girl looked puzzled. "Who he is?"

"I see you don't know. The secret's been kept from you, somehow, by his friend who brought
you here. You'll tell me how you came; but first I'll answer your question. The Cassim ben
Halim you knew, has been dead for eight years."

"They told me so in Algiers. But--do you mean--have you married again?"

