The fifth kind of answer, which is the subtlest, the most often used, and the most effective,
consists in avoiding answering, in making believe that this question is one which has long
ago been decided perfectly clearly and satisfactorily, and that it is not worth while to talk
about it.  This method of reply is employed by all the more or less cultivated religious writers,
that is to say, those who feel the laws of Christ binding for themselves.  Knowing that the
contradiction existing between the teaching of Christ which we profess with our lips and the
whole order of our lives cannot be removed by words, and that touching upon it can only make
it more obvious, they, with more or less ingenuity, evade it, pretending that the question
of reconciling Christianity with the use of force has been decided already, or does not exist
at all.

    [Footnote: I only know one work which differs somewhat from
    this general definition, and that is not a criticism in the
    precise meaning of the word, but an article treating of the
    same subject and having my book in view.  I mean the pamphlet
    of Mr. Troizky (published at Kazan), "A Sermon for the
    People."  The author obviously accepts Christ's teaching in
    its true meaning.  He says that the prohibition of resistance
    to evil by force means exactly what it does mean; and the same
    with the prohibition of swearing.  He does not, as others do,
    deny the meaning of Christ's teaching, but unfortunately he
    does not draw from this admission the inevitable deductions
    which present themselves spontaneously in our life when we
    understand Christ's teaching in that way.  If we must not
    oppose evil by force, nor swear, everyone naturally asks,
    "How, then, about military service? and the oath of
    obedience?"  To this question the author gives no reply; but
    it must be answered.  And if he cannot answer, then he would
    do better no to speak on the subject at all, as such silence
    leads to error.

The majority of religious critics of my book use this fifth method of replying to it. I could
quote dozens of such critics, in all of whom, without exception, we find the same thing repeated:
everything is discussed except what constitutes the principal subject of the book.  As a characteristic
example of such criticisms, I will quote the article of a well-known and ingenious English
writer and preacher--Farrar--who, like many learned theologians, is a great master of the art
of circuitously evading a question.  The article was published in an American journal, the
FORUM, in October, 1888.

After conscientiously explaining in brief the contents of my book, Farrar says:

   "Tolstoy came to the conclusion that a coarse deceit had been
   palmed upon the world when these words 'Resist not evil,' were
   held by civil society to be compatible with war, courts of
   justice, capital punishment, divorce, oaths, national
   prejudice, and, indeed, with most of the institutions of civil
   and social life.  He now believes that the kingdom of God would
   come if all men kept these five commandments of Christ, viz.:
   1. Live in peace with all men.  2. Be pure.  3. Take no oaths.
   4. Resist not evil.  5. Renounce national distinctions.

   "Tolstoy," he says, "rejects the inspiration of the Old
   Testament; hence he rejects the chief doctrines of the Church--
   that of the Atonement by blood, the Trinity, the descent of the
   Holy Ghost on the Apostles, and his transmission through the
   priesthood."  And he recognizes only the words and commands of
   Christ.  "But is this interpretation of Christ a true one?" he
   says.  "Are all men bound to act as Tolstoy teaches--i. e., to
   carry out these five commandments of Christ?"

You expect, then, that in answer to this essential question, which is the only one that could
induce a man to write an article about the book, he will say either that this interpretation
of Christ's teaching is true and we ought to follow it, or he will say that such an interpretation
is untrue, will show why, and will give some other correct interpretation of those words which
I interpret incorrectly.  But nothing of this kind is done.  Farrar only expresses his "belief"
that,

   "although actuated by the noblest sincerity, Count Tolstoy has
   been misled by partial and one-sided interpretations of the
   meaning of the Gospel and the mind and will of Christ."  What
   this error consists in is not made clear; it is only said:
   "To enter into the proof of this is impossible in this article,
   for I have already exceeded the space at my command."

And he concludes in a tranquil spirit:

   "Meanwhile, the reader who feels troubled lest it should be his
   duty also to forsake all the conditions of his life and to take
   up the position and work of a common laborer, may rest for the
   present on the principle, SECURUS JUDICAT ORBIS TERRARUM.  With
   few and rare exceptions," he continues, "the whole of
   Christendom, from the days of the Apostles down to our own, has
   come to the firm conclusion that it was the object of Christ to
   lay down great eternal principles, but not to disturb the bases
   and revolutionize the institutions of all human society, which
   themselves rest on divine sanctions as well as on inevitable
   conditions.  Were it my object to prove how untenable is the
   doctrine of communism, based by Count Tolstoy upon the divine
   paradoxes [sic], which can be interpreted only on historical
   principles in accordance with the whole method of the teaching
   of Jesus, it would require an ampler canvas than I have here at
   my disposal."

What a pity he has not an "ampler canvas at his disposal"!  And what a strange thing it is
that for all these last fifteen centuries no one has had a "canvas ample enough" to prove that
Christ, whom we profess to believe in, says something utterly unlike what he does say!  Still,
they could prove it if they wanted to.  But it is not worth while to prove what everyone knows;
it is enough to say "SECURUS JUDICAT ORBIS TERRARUM."

And of this kind, without exception, are all the criticisms of educated believers, who must,
as such, understand the danger of their position.  The sole escape from it for them lies in
their hope that they may be able, by using the authority of the Church, of antiquity, and of
their sacred office, to overawe the reader and draw him away from the idea of reading the Gospel
for himself and thinking out the question in his own mind for himself.  And in this they are
successful; for, indeed, how could the notion occur to any one that all that has been repeated
from century to century with such earnestness and solemnity by all those archdeacons, bishops,
archbishops, holy synods, and popes, is all of it a base lie and a calumny foisted upon Christ
by them for the sake of keeping safe the money they must have to live luxuriously on the necks
of other men?  And it is a lie and a calumny so transparent that the only way of keeping it
up consists in overawing people by their earnestness, their conscientiousness.  It is just
what has taken place of late years at recruiting sessions; at a table before the zertzal--the
symbol of the Tzars authority--in the seat of honor under the life-size portrait of the Tzar,
sit dignified old officials, wearing decorations, conversing freely and easily, writing notes,
summoning men before them, and giving orders. Here, wearing a cross on his breast, near them,
is prosperous- looking old Priest in a silken cassock, with long gray hair flowing on to his
cope; before a lectern who wears the golden cross and has a Gospel bound in gold.

They summon Iran Petroff.  A young man comes in, wretchedly, shabbily dressed, and in terror,
the muscles of his face working, his eyes bright and restless; and in a broken voice, hardly
above a whisper, he says: "I--by Christ's law--as a Christian--I cannot."  "What is he muttering?"
asks the president, frowning impatiently and raising his eyes from his book to listen. "Speak
louder," the colonel with shining epaulets shouts to him. "I--I as a Christian--"  And at last
it appears that the young man refuses to serve in the army because he is a Christian.  "Don't
talk nonsense.  Stand to be measured.  Doctor, may I trouble you to measure him.  He is all
right?"  "Yes."  "Reverend father, administer the oath to him."

No one is the least disturbed by what the poor scared young man is muttering. They do not even
pay attention to it.  "They all mutter something, but we've no time to listen to it, we have
to enroll so many."

The recruit tries to say something still.  "It's opposed to the law of Christ."  "Go along,
go along; we know without your help what is opposed to the law and what's not; and you soothe
his mind, reverend father, soothe him.  Next: Vassily Nikitin."  And they lead the trembling
youth away. And it does not strike anyone --the guards, or Vassily Nikitin, whom they are bringing
in, or any of the spectators of this scene--that these inarticulate words of the young man,
at once suppressed by the authorities, contain the truth, and that the loud, solemnly uttered
sentences of the calm, self-confident official and the priest are a lie and a deception.

Such is the impression produced not only by Farrar's article, but by all those solemn sermons,
articles, and books which make their appearance from all sides directly there is anywhere a
glimpse of truth exposing a predominant falsehood.  At once begins the series of long, clever,
ingenious, and solemn speeches and writings, which deal with questions nearly related to the
subject, but skillfully avoid touching the subject itself.

That is the essence of the fifth and most effective means of getting out of the contradictions
in which Church Christianity has placed itself, by professing its faith in Christ's teaching
in words, while it denies it in its life, and teaches people to do the same.

Those who justify themselves by the first method, directly, crudely asserting that Christ sanctioned
violence, wars, and murder, repudiate Christ's doctrine directly; those who find their defense
in the second, the third, or the fourth method are confused and can easily be convicted of
error; but this last class, who do not argue, who do not condescend to argue about it, but
take shelter behind their own grandeur, and make a show of all this having been decided by
them or at least by someone long ago, and no longer offering a possibility of doubt to anyone--they
seem safe from attack, and will be beyond attack till men come to realize that they are under
the narcotic influence exerted on them by governments and churches, and are no longer affected
by it.

Such was the attitude of the spiritual critics--i. e., those professing faith in Christ--to
my book.  And their attitude could not have been different.  They are bound to take up this
attitude by the contradictory position in which they find themselves between belief in the
divinity of their Master and disbelief in his clearest utterances, and they want to escape
from this contradiction.  So that one cannot expect from them free discussion of the very essence
of the question--that is, of the change in men's life which must result from applying Christ's
teaching to the existing order of the world.  Such free discussion I only expected from worldly,
freethinking critics who are not bound to Christ's teaching in any way, and can therefore take
an independent view of it.  I had anticipated that freethinking writers would look at Christ,
not merely, like the Churchmen, as the founder of a religion of personal salvation, but, to
express it in their language, as a reformer who laid down new principles of life and destroyed
the old, and whose reforms are not yet complete, but are still in progress even now.

Such a view of Christ and his teaching follows from my book.  But to my astonishment, out of
the great number of critics of my book there was not one, either Russian or foreign, who treated
the subject from the side from which it was approached in the book-- that is, who criticised
Christ's doctrines as philosophical, moral, and social principles, to use their scientific
expressions. This was not done in a single criticism.  The freethinking Russian critics taking
my book as though its whole contents could be reduced to non-resistance to evil, and understanding
the doctrine of non-resistance to evil itself (no doubt for greater convenience in refuting
it) as though it would prohibit every kind of conflict with evil, fell vehemently upon this
doctrine, and for some years past have been very successfully proving that Christ's teaching
is mistaken in so far as it forbids resistance to evil.  Their refutations of this hypothetical
doctrine of Christ were all the more successful since they knew beforehand that their arguments
could not be contested or corrected, for the censorship, not having passed the book, did not
pass articles in its defense.

It is a remarkable thing that among us, where one cannot say a word about the Holy Scriptures
without the prohibition of the censorship, for some years past there have been in all the journals
constant attacks and criticisms on the command of Christ simply and directly stated in Matt.
v. 39.  The Russian advanced critics, obviously unaware of all that has been done to elucidate
the question of non-resistance, and sometimes even imagining apparently that the rule of non-resistance
to evil had been invented by me personally, fell foul of the very idea of it.  They opposed
it and attacked it, and advancing with great heat arguments which had long ago been analyzed
and refuted from every point of view, they demonstrated that a man ought invariably to defend
(with violence) all the injured and oppressed, and that thus the doctrine of non-resistance
to evil is an immoral doctrine.

To all Russian critics the whole import of Christ's command seemed reducible to the fact that
it would hinder them from the active opposition to evil to which they are accustomed.  So that
the principle of non-resistance to evil by force has been attacked by two opposing camps: the
conservatives, because this principle would hinder their activity in resistance to evil as
applied to the revolutionists, in persecution and punishment of them; the revolutionists, too,
because this principle would hinder their resistance to evil as applied to the conservatives
and the overthrowing of them.  The conservatives were indignant at the doctrine of non-resistance
to evil by force hindering the energetic destruction of the revolutionary elements, which may
ruin the national prosperity; the revolutionists were indignant at the doctrine of non-resistance
to evil by force hindering the overthrow of the conservatives, who are ruining the national
prosperity.  It is worthy of remark in this connection that the revolutionists have attacked
the principle of nonresistance to evil by force, in spite of the fact that it is the greatest
terror and danger for every despotism.  For ever since the beginning of the world, the use
of violence of every kind, from the Inquisition to the Schlusselburg fortress, has rested and
still rests on the opposite principle of the necessity of resisting evil by force.

Besides this, the Russian critics have pointed out the fact that the application of the command
of non-resistance to practical life would turn mankind aside out of the path of civilization
along which it is moving.  The path of civilization on which mankind in Europe is moving is
in their opinion the one along which all mankind ought always to move.

So much for the general character of the Russian critics.

Foreign critics started from the same premises, but their discussions of my book were somewhat
different from those of Russian critics, not only in being less bitter, and in showing more
culture, but even in the subject-matter.

In discussing my book and the Gospel teaching generally, as it is expressed in the Sermon on
the Mount, the foreign critics maintained that such doctrine is not peculiarly Christian (Christian
doctrine is either Catholicism or Protestantism according to their views)--the teaching of
the Sermon on the Mount is only a string of very pretty impracticable dreams DU CHARMANT DOCTEUR,
as Reran says, fit for the simple and half-savage inhabitants of Galilee who lived eighteen
hundred years ago, and for the half-savage Russian peasants--Sutaev and Bondarev--and the Russian
mystic Tolstoy, but not at all consistent with a high degree of European culture.

The foreign freethinking critics have tried in a delicate manner, without being offensive to
me, to give the impression that my conviction that mankind could be guided by such a naive
doctrine as that of the Sermon on the Mount proceeds from two causes: that such a conviction
is partly due to my want of knowledge, my ignorance of history, my ignorance of all the vain
attempts to apply the principles of the Sermon on the Mount to life, which have been made in
history and have led to nothing; and partly it is due to my failing to appreciate the full
value of the lofty civilization to which mankind has attained at present, with its Krupp cannons,
smokeless powder, colonization of Africa, Irish Coercion Bill, parliamentary government, journalism,
strikes, and the Eiffel Tower.

So wrote de Vogue and Leroy Beaulieu and Matthew Arnold; so wrote the American author Savage,
and Ingersoll, the popular freethinking American preacher, and many others.

"Christ's teaching is no use, because it is inconsistent with our industrial age," says Ingersoll
naively, expressing in this utterance, with perfect directness and simplicity, the exact notion
of Christ's teaching held by persons of refinement and culture of our times.  The teaching
is no use for our industrial age, precisely as though the existence of this industrial age
were a sacred fact which ought not to and could not be changed.  It is just as though drunkards
when advised how they could be brought to habits of sobriety should answer that the advice
is incompatible with their habit of taking alcohol.

The arguments of all the freethinking critics, Russian and foreign alike, different as they
may be in tone and manner of presentation, all amount essentially to the same strange misapprehension--namely,
that Christ's teaching, one of the consequences of which is non-resistance to evil, is of no
use to us because it requires a change of our life.

Christ's teaching is useless because, if it were carried into practice, life could not go on
as at present; we must add: if we have begun by living sinfully, as we do live and are accustomed
to live.  Not only is the question of non-resistance to evil not discussed; the very mention
of the fact that the duty of non- resistance enters into Christ's teaching is regarded as satisfactory
proof of the impracticability of the whole teaching.

Meanwhile one would have thought it was necessary to point out at least some kind of solution
of the following question, since it is at the root of almost everything that interests us.

The question amounts to this: In what way are we to decide men's disputes, when some men consider
evil what others consider good, and VICE VERSA?  And to reply that that is evil which I think
evil, in spite of the fact that my opponent thinks it good, is not a solution of the difficulty.
There can only be two solutions: either to find a real unquestionable criterion of what is
evil or not to resist evil by force.

The first course has been tried ever since the beginning of historical times, and, as we all
know, it has not hitherto led to any successful results.

The second solution--not forcibly to resist what we consider evil until we have found a universal
criterion--that is the solution given by Christ.

We may consider the answer given by Christ unsatisfactory; we may replace it by another and
better, by finding a criterion by which evil could be defined for all men unanimously and simultaneously;
we may simply, like savage nations, not recognize the existence of the question.  But we cannot
treat the question as the learned critics of Christianity do.  They pretend either that no
such question exists at all or that the question is solved by granting to certain persons or
assemblies of persons the right to define evil and to resist it by force.  But we know all
the while that granting such a right to certain persons does not decide the question (still
less so when the are ourselves the certain persons), since there are always people who do not
recognize this right in the authorized persons or assemblies.

But this assumption, that what seems evil to us is really evil, shows a complete misunderstanding
of the question, and lies at the root of the argument of freethinking critics about the Christian
religion.  In this way, then, the discussions of my book on the part of Churchmen and freethinking
critics alike showed me that the majority of men simply do not understand either Christ's teaching
or the questions which Christ's teaching solves.

CHAPTER III.

CHRISTIANITY MISUNDERSTOOD BY BELIEVERS.

Meaning of Christian Doctrine, Understood by a Minority, has Become Completely Incomprehensible
for the Majority of Men-- Reason of this to be Found in Misinterpretation of Christianity and
Mistaken Conviction of Believers and Unbelievers Alike that they Understand it--The Meaning
of Christianity Obscured for Believers by the Church--The First Appearance of Christ's Teaching--Its
Essence and Difference from Heathen Religions-- Christianity not Fully Comprehended at the
Beginning, Became More and More Clear to those who Accepted it from its Correspondence with
Truth--Simultaneously with this Arose the Claim to Possession of the Authentic Meaning of the
Doctrine Based on the Miraculous Nature of its Transmission--Assembly of Disciples as Described
in the Acts--The Authoritative Claim to the Sole Possession of the True Meaning of Christ's
Teaching Supported by Miraculous Evidence has Led by Logical Development to the Creeds of the
Churches--A Church Could Not be Founded by Christ--Definitions of a Church According to the
Catechisms-- The Churches have Always been Several in Number and Hostile to One Another--What
is Heresy--The Work of G. Arnold on Heresies-- Heresies the Manifestations of Progress in the
Churches-- Churches Cause Dissension among Men, and are Always Hostile to Christianity--Account
of the Work Done by the Russian Church-- Matt. xxiii. 23--The Sermon on the Mount or the Creed--The
Orthodox Church Conceals from the People the True Meaning of Christianity--The Same Thing is
Done by the Other Churches--All the External Conditions of Modern Life are such as to Destroy
the Doctrine of the Church, and therefore the Churches use Every Effort to Support their Doctrines.

Thus the information I received, after my book came out, went to show that the Christian doctrine,
in its direct and simple sense, was understood, and had always been understood, by a minority
of men, while the critics, ecclesiastical and freethinking alike, denied the possibility of
taking Christ's teaching in its direct sense.  All this convinced me that while on one hand
the true understanding of this doctrine had never been lost to a minority, but had been established
more and more clearly, on the other hand the meaning of it had been more and more obscured
for the majority.  So that at last such a depth of obscurity has been reached that men do not
take in their direct sense even the simplest precepts, expressed in the simplest words, in
the Gospel.

Christ's teaching is not generally understood in its true, simple, and direct sense even in
these days, when the light of the Gospel has penetrated even to the darkest recesses of human
consciousness; when, in the words of Christ, that which was spoken in the ear is proclaimed
from the housetops; and when the Gospel is influencing every side of human life--domestic,
economic, civic, legislative, and international.  This lack of true understanding of Christ's
words at such a time would be inexplicable, if there were not causes to account for it.

One of these causes is the fact that believers and unbelievers alike are firmly persuaded that
they have understood Christ's teaching a long time, and that they understand it so fully, indubitably,
and conclusively that it can have no other significance than the one they attribute to it.
And the reason of this conviction is that the false interpretation and consequent misapprehension
of the Gospel is an error of such long standing. Even the strongest current of water cannot
add a drop to a cup which is already full.

The most difficult subjects can be explained to the most slow- witted man if he has not formed
any idea of them already; but the simplest thing cannot be made clear to the most intelligent
man if he is firmly persuaded that he knows already, without a shadow of doubt, what is laid
before him.

The Christian doctrine is presented to the men of our world to-day as a doctrine which everyone
has known so long and accepted so unhesitatingly in all its minutest details that it cannot
be understood in any other way than it is understood now.

Christianity is understood now by all who profess the doctrines of the Church as a supernatural
miraculous revelation of everything which is repeated in the Creed.  By unbelievers it is regarded
as an illustration of man's craving for a belief in the supernatural, which mankind has now
outgrown, as an historical phenomenon which has received full expression in Catholicism, Greek
Orthodoxy, and Protestantism, and has no longer any living significance for us. The significance
of the Gospel is hidden from believers by the Church, from unbelievers by Science.

I will speak first of the former.  Eighteen hundred years ago there appeared in the midst of
the heathen Roman world a strange new doctrine, unlike any of the old religions, and attributed
to a man, Christ.

This new doctrine was in both form and content absolutely new to the Jewish world in which
it originated, and still more to the Roman world in which it was preached and diffused.

In the midst of the elaborate religious observances of Judaism, in which, in the words of Isaiah,
law was laid upon law, and in the midst of the Roman legal system worked out to the highest
point of perfection, a new doctrine appeared, which denied not only every deity, and all fear
and worship of them, but even all human institutions and all necessity for them.  In place
of all the rules of the old religions, this doctrine sets up only a type of inward perfection,
truth, and love in the person of Christ, and-- as a result of this inward perfection being
attained by men--also the outward perfection foretold by the Prophets--the kingdom of God,
when all men will cease to learn to make war, when all shall be taught of God and united in
love, and the lion will lie down with the lamb.  Instead of the threats of punishment which
all the old laws of religions and governments alike laid down for non- fulfillment of their
rules, instead of promises of rewards for fulfillment of them, this doctrine called men to
it only because it was the truth.  John vii. 17: "If any man will do His will, he shad know
of the doctrine whether it be of God."  John viii. 46: "If I say the truth, why do ye not believe
me?  But ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth.  Ye shall know the truth,
and the truth shall make you free. Keep my sayings, and ye shall know of my sayings whether
they be true."   No proofs of this doctrine were offered except its truth, the correspondence
of the doctrine with the truth.  The whole teaching consisted in the recognition of truth and
following it, in a greater and greater attainment of truth, and a closer and closer following
of it in the acts of life.  There are no acts in this doctrine which could justify a man and
make him saved.  There is only the image of truth to guide-him, for inward perfection in the
person of Christ, and for outward perfection in the establishment of the kingdom of God.  The
fulfillment of this teaching consists only in walking in the chosen way, in getting nearer
to inward perfection in the imitation of Christ, and outward perfection in the establishment
of the kingdom of God. The greater or less blessedness of a man depends, according to this
doctrine, not on the degree of perfection to which he has attained, but on the greater or less
swiftness with which he is pursuing it.

The progress toward perfection of the publican of the publican Zaccheus, of the woman that
was a sinner, of the robber on the cross, is a greater state of blessedness, according to this
doctrine, than the stationary righteousness of the Pharisee.  The lost sheep is dearer than
ninety-nine that were not lost.  The prodigal son, the piece of money that was lost and found
again, are dearer, more precious to God than those which have not been lost.

Every condition, according to this doctrine, is only a particular step in the attainment of
inward and outward perfection, and therefore has no significance of itself.  Blessedness consists
in progress toward perfection; to stand still in any condition whatever means the cessation
of this blessedness.

"Let not thy left hand know what they right hand doeth."  "Rejoice not that the spirits are
subject to you, but seek rather that your names be written in heaven."  "Be ye perfect even
as your Father in heaven is perfect."  "Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness."

The fulfillment of this precept is only to be found in uninterrupted progress toward the attainment
of ever higher truth, toward establishing more and more firmly an ever greater love within
oneself, and establishing more and more widely the kingdom of God outside oneself.

It is obvious that, appearing as it did in the midst of the Jewish and heathen world, such
teaching could not be accepted by the majority of men, who were living a life absolutely different
from what was required by it.  It is obvious, too, that even for those by whom it was accepted,
it was so absolutely opposed to all their old views that it could not be comprehensible in
its full significance.

It has been only by a succession of misunderstandings, errors, partial explanations, and the
corrections and additions of generations that the meaning of the Christian doctrine has grown
continually more and more clear to men.  The Christian view of life has exerted an influence
on the Jewish and heathen, and the heathen and Jewish view of life has, too, exerted an influence
on the Christian.  And Christianity, as the living force, has gained more and more upon the
extinct Judaism and heathenism, and has grown continually clearer and clearer, as it freed
itself from the admixture of falsehood which had overlaid it.  Men went further and further
in the attainment of the meaning of Christianity, and realized it more and more in life.

The longer mankind lived, the clearer and clearer became the meaning of Christianity, as must
always be the case with every theory of life.

Succeeding generations corrected the errors of their predecessors, and grew ever nearer and
nearer to a comprehension of the true meaning.  It was thus from the very earliest times of
Christianity.  And so, too, from the earliest times of Christianity there were men who began
to assert on their own authority that the meaning they attribute to the doctrine is the only
true one, and as proof bring forward supernatural occurrences in support of the correctness
of their interpretation.

This was the principal cause at first of the misunderstanding of the doctrine, and afterward
of the complete distortion of it.

It was supposed that Christ's teaching was transmitted to men not like every other truth, but
in a special miraculous way.  Thus the truth of the teaching was not proved by its correspondence
with the needs of the mind and the whole nature of man, but by the miraculous manner of its
transmission, which was advanced as an irrefutable proof of the truth of the interpretation
put on it. This hypothesis originated from misunderstanding of the teaching, and its result
was to make it impossible to understand it rightly.

And this happened first in the earliest times, when the doctrine was still not so fully understood
and often interpreted wrongly, as we see by the Gospels and the Acts.  The less the doctrine
was understood, the more obscure it appeared and the more necessary were external proofs of
its truth.  The proposition that we ought not to do unto others as we would not they should
do unto us, did not need to be proved by miracles and needed no exercise of faith, because
this proposition is in itself convincing and in harmony with man's mind and nature; but the
proposition that Christ was God had to be proved by miracles completely beyond our comprehension.

The more the understanding of Christ's teaching was obscured, the more the miraculous was introduced
into it; and the more the miraculous was introduced into it, the more the doctrine was strained
from its meaning and the more obscure it became; and the more it was strained from its meaning
and the more obscure it became, the more strongly its infallibility had to be asserted, and
the less comprehensible the doctrine became.

One can see by the Gospels, the Acts, and the Epistles how from the earliest times the non-comprehension
of the doctrine called forth the need for proofs through the miraculous and incomprehensible.

The first example in the book of Acts is the assembly which gathered together in Jerusalem
to decide the question which had arisen, whether to baptize or not the uncircumcised and those
who had eaten of food sacrificed to idols.

The very fact of this question being raised showed that those who discussed it did not understand
the teaching of Christ, who rejected all outward observances--ablutions, purifications, fasts,
and sabbaths.  It was plainly said, "Not that which goeth into a man's mouth, but that which
cometh out of a man's mouth, defileth him," and therefore the question of baptizing the uncircumcised
could only have arisen among men who, though they loved their Master and dimly felt the grandeur
of his teaching, still did not understand the teaching itself very clearly. And this was the fact.

Just in proportion to the failure of the members of the assembly to understand the doctrine
was their need of external confirmation of their incomplete interpretation of it.  And then
to settle this question, the very asking of which proved their misunderstanding of the doctrine,
there was uttered in this assembly, as is described in the Acts, that strange phrase, which
was for the first time found necessary to give external confirmation to certain assertions,
and which has been productive of so much evil.

That is, it was asserted that the correctness of what they had decided was guaranteed by the
miraculous participation of the Holy Ghost, that is, of God, in their decision.  But the assertion
that the Holy Ghost, that is, God, spoke through the Apostles, in its turn wanted proof.  And
thus it was necessary, to confirm this, that the Holy Ghost should descend at Pentecost in
tongues of fire upon those who made this assertion.  (In the account of it, the descent of
the Holy Ghost precedes the assembly, but the book of Acts was written much later than both
events.)  But the descent of the Holy Ghost too had to be proved for those who had not seen
the tongues of fire (though it is not easy to understand why a tongue of fire burning above
a man's head should prove that what that man is going to say will be infallibly the truth).
And so arose the necessity for still more miracles and changes, raisings of the dead to life,
and strikings of the living dead, and all those marvels which have been a stumbling-block to
men, of which the Acts is full, and which, far from ever convincing one of the truth of the
Christian doctrine, can only repel men from it.  The result of such a means of confirming the
truth was that the more these confirmations of truth by tales of miracles were heaped up one
after another, the more the doctrine was distorted from its original meaning, aid the more
incomprehensible it became.

Thus it was from the earliest times, and so it went on, constantly increasing, till it reached
in our day the logical climax of the dogmas of transubstantiation and the infallibility of
the Pope, or of the bishops, or of Scripture, and of requiring a blind faith rendered incomprehensible
and utterly meaningless, not in God, but in Christ, not in a doctrine, but in a person, as
in Catholicism, or in persons, as in Greek Orthodoxy, or in a book, as in Protestantism.  The
more widely Christianity was diffused, and the greater the number of people unprepared for
it who were brought under its sway, the less it was understood, the more absolutely was its
infallibility insisted on, and the less possible it became to understand the true meaning of
the doctrine.  In the times of Constantine the whole interpretation of the doctrine had been
already reduced to a RESUME--supported by the temporal authority-- of the disputes that had
taken place in the Council--to a creed which reckoned off--I believe in so and so, and so and
so, and so and so to the end--to one holy, Apostolic Church, which means the infallibility
of those persons who call themselves the Church.  So that it all amounts to a man no longer
believing in God nor Christ, as they are revealed to him, but believing in what the Church
orders him to believe in.

But the Church is holy; the Church was founded by Christ.  God could not leave men to interpret
his teaching at random--therefore he founded the Church.  All those statements are so utterly
untrue and unfounded that one is ashamed to refute them.  Nowhere nor in anything, except in
the assertion of the Church, can we find that God or Christ founded anything like what Churchmen
understand by the Church.  In the Gospels there is a warning against the Church, as it is an
external authority, a warning most clear and obvious in the passage where it is said that Christ's
followers should "call no man master."  But nowhere is anything said of the foundation of what
Churchmen call the Church.

The word church is used twice in the Gospels--once in the sense of an assembly of men to decide
a dispute, the other time in connection with the obscure utterance about a stone--Peter, and
the gates of hell.  From these two passages in which the word church is used, in the signification
merely of an assembly, has been deduced all that we now understand by the Church.

But Christ could not have founded the Church, that is, what we now understand by that word.
For nothing like the idea of the Church as we know it now, with its sacraments, miracles, and
above all its claim to infallibility, is to be found either in Christ's words or in the ideas
of the men of that time.

The fact that men called what was formed afterward by the same word as Christ used for something
totally different, does not give them the right to assert that Christ founded the one, true Church.

Besides, if Christ had really founded such an institution as the Church for the foundation
of all his teaching and the whole faith, he would certainly have described this institution
clearly and definitely, and would have given the only true Church, besides tales of miracles,
which are used to support every kind of superstition, some tokens so unmistakable that no doubt
of its genuineness could ever have arisen.  But nothing of the sort was done by him.  And there
have been and still are different institutions, each calling itself the true Church.

The Catholic catechism says: "L'Eglise est la societe des fideles etablie par notre Seigneur
Jesus Christ, repandue sur toute la terre et soumise a l'authorite des pasteurs legitimes,
principalement notre Saint Pere le Pape," [see Footnote] understanding by the words "pasteurs
legitimes" an association of men having the Pope at its head, and consisting of certain individuals
bound together by a certain organization.

    [Footnote: "The Church is the society of the faithful,
    established by our Lord Jesus Christ, spread over the
    whole earth, and subject to the authority of its lawful
    pastors, and chief of them our Holy Father the Pope."

The Greek Orthodox catechism says: "The Church is a society founded upon earth by Jesus Christ,
which is united into one whole, by one divine doctrine and by sacraments, under the rule and
guidance of a priesthood appointed by God," meaning by the "priesthood appointed by God" the
Greek Orthodox priesthood, consisting of certain individuals who happen to be in such or such
positions.

The Lutheran catechism says: "The Church is holy Christianity, or the collection of all believers
under Christ, their head, to whom the Holy Ghost through the Gospels and sacraments promises,
communicates, and administers heavenly salvation," meaning that the Catholic Church is lost
in error, and that the true means of salvation is in Lutheranism.

For Catholics the Church of God coincides with the Roman priesthood and the Pope.  For the
Greek Orthodox believer the Church of God coincides with the establishment and priesthood of
Russia. [See Footnote]

    [Footnote: Homyakov's definition of the Church, which
    was received with some favor among Russians, does not
    improve matters, if we are to agree with Homyakov in
    considering the Greek Orthodox Church as the one true
    Church.  Homyakov asserts that a church is a collection
    of men (all without distinction of clergy and laymen)
    united together by love, and that only to men united by
    love is the truth revealed (let us love each other, that
    in the unity of thought, etc.), and that such a church
    is the church which, in the first place, recognizes the
    Nicene Creed, and in the second place does not, after
    the division of the churches, recognize the popes and
    new dogmas.  But with such a definition of the church,
    there is still more difficulty in reconciling, as
    Homyakov tries to do, the church united by love with
    the church that recognizes the Nicene Creed and the
    doctrine of Photius.  So that Homyakov's assertion that
    this church, united by love, and consequently holy,
    is the same church as the Greek Orthodox priesthood
    profess faith in, is even more arbitrary than the
    assertions of the Catholics or the Orthodox.  If we
    admit the idea of a church in the sense Homyakov
    gives to it--that is, a body of men bound together
    by love and truth--then all that any man can predicate
    in regard to this body, if such an one exists, is
    its love and truth, but there can be no outer signs
    by which one could reckon oneself or another as a
    member of this holy body, nor by which one could put
    anyone outside it; so that no institution having
    an external existence can correspond to this idea.

For Lutherans the Church of God coincides with a body of men who recognize the authority of
the Bible and Luther's catechism.

Ordinarily, when speaking of the rise of Christianity, men belonging to one of the existing
churches use the word church in the singular, as though there were and had been only one church.
But this is absolutely incorrect.  The Church, as an institution which asserted that it possessed
infallible truth, did not make its appearance singly; there were at least two churches directly
this claim was made.

While believers were agreed among themselves and the body was one, it had no need to declare
itself as a church.  It was only when believers were split up into opposing parties, renouncing
one another, that it seemed necessary to each party to confirm their own truth by ascribing
to themselves infallibility.  The conception of one church only arose when there were two sides
divided and disputing, who each called the other side heresy, and recognized their own side
only as the infallible church.

If we knew that there was a church which decided in the year 51 to receive the uncircumcised,
it is only so because there was another church--of the Judaists--who decided to keep the uncircumcised
out.

If there is a Catholic Church now which asserts its own infallibility, that is only because
there are churches--Greco- Russian, Old Orthodox, and Lutheran--each asserting its own infallibility
and denying that of all other churches.  So that the one Church is only a fantastic imagination
which has not the least trace of reality about it.

As a real historical fact there has existed, and still exist, several bodies of men, each asserting
that it is the one Church, founded by Christ, and that all the others who call themselves churches
are only sects and heresies.

The catechisms of the churches of the most world-wide influence-- the Catholic, the Old Orthodox,
and the Lutheran--openly assert this.

In the Catholic catechism it is said: "Quels sont ceux qui sont hors de l'eglise?  Les infideles,
les heretiques, les schismatiques." [Footnote: "Who are those who are outside the Church? Infidels,
heretics, and schismatics."]  The so-called Greek Orthodox are regarded as schismatics, the
Lutherans as heretics; so that according to the Catholic catechism the only people in the Church
are Catholics.

In the so-called Orthodox catechism it is said: By the one Christian Church is understood the
Orthodox, which remains fully in accord with the Universal Church.  As for the Roman Church
and other sects (the Lutherans and the rest they do not even dignify by the name of church),
they cannot be included in the one true Church, since they have themselves separated from it.

According to this definition the Catholics and Lutherans are outside the Church, and there
are only Orthodox in the Church.

The Lutheran catechism says: "Die wahre kirche wird darein erkannt, dass in ihr das Wort Gottes
lauter und rein ohne Menschenzusatze gelehrt and die Sacramente treu nach Christi Einsetzung
gewahret werden." [Footnote: "The true Church will be known by the Word of God being studied
clear and unmixed with man's additions and the sacraments being maintained faithful to Christ's
teaching."

According to this definition all those who have added anything to the teaching of Christ and
the apostles, as the Catholic and Greek churches have done, are outside the Church.  And in
the Church there are only Protestants.

The Catholics assert that the Holy Ghost has been transmitted without a break in their priesthood.
The Orthodox assert that the same Holy Ghost has been transmitted without a break in their
priesthood.  The Arians asserted that the Holy Ghost was transmitted in their priesthood (they
asserted this with just as much right as the churches in authority now).  The Protestants of
every kind--Lutherans, Reformed Church, Presbyterians, Methodists, Swedenborgians, Mormons--assert
that the Holy Ghost is only present in their communities.  If the Catholics assert that the
Holy Ghost, at the time of the division of the Church into Arian and Greek, left the Church
that fell away and remained in the one true Church, with precisely the same right the Protestants
of every denomination can assert that at the time of the separation of their Church from the
Catholic the Holy Ghost left the Catholic and passed into the Church they professed.  And this
is just what they do.

Every church traces its creed through an uninterrupted transmission from Christ and the Apostles.
And truly every Christian creed that has been derived from Christ must have come down to the
present generation through a certain transmission. But that does not prove that it alone of
all that has been transmuted, excluding all the rest, can be the sole truth, admitting of no doubt.

Every branch in a tree comes from the root in unbroken connection; but the fact that each branch
comes from the one root, does not prove at all that each branch was the only one.  It is precisely
the same with the Church.  Every church presents exactly the same proofs of the succession,
and even the same miracles, in support of its authenticity, as every other.  So that there
is but one strict and exact definition of what is a church (not of something fantastic which
we would wish it to be, but of what it is and has been in reality)--a church is a body of men
who claim for themselves that they are in complete and sole possession of the truth.  And these
bodies, having in course of time, aided by the support of the temporal authorities, developed
into powerful institutions, have been the principal obstacles to the diffusion of a true comprehension
of the teaching of Christ.

It could not be otherwise.  The chief peculiarity which distinguished Christ's teaching from
previous religions consisted in the fact that those who accepted it strove ever more and more
to comprehend and realize its teaching.  But the Church doctrine asserted its own complete
and final comprehension and realization of it.

Strange though it may seem to us who have been brought up in the erroneous view of the Church
as a Christian institution, and in contempt for heresy, yet the fact is that only in what was
called heresy was there any true movement, that is, true Christianity, and that it only ceased
to be so when those heresies stopped short in their movement and also petrified into the fixed
forms of a church.

And, indeed what is a heresy?  Read all the theological works one after another.  In all of
them heresy is the subject which first presents itself for definition; since every theological
work deals with the true doctrine of Christ as distinguished from the erroneous doctrines which
surround it, that is, heresies.  Yet you will not find anywhere anything like a definition
of heresy.

The treatment of this subject by the learned historian of Christianity, E. de Pressense, in
his "Histoire du Dogme" (Paris, 1869), under the heading "Ubi Christus, ibi Ecclesia," may
serve as an illustration of the complete absence of anything like a definition of what is understood
by the word heresy. Here is what he says in his introduction (p. 3):

   "Je sais  que l'on nous conteste le droit de qualifier ainsi
   [that is, to call heresies] les tendances qui furent si
   vivement combattues par les premiers Peres.  La designation
   meme d'heresie semble une atteinte portee a la liberte de
   conscience et de pensee.  Nous ne pouvons partager ce scrupule,
   car il n'irait a rien moins qu'a enlever au Christianisme tout
   caractere distinctif." [see Footnote]

    [Footnote: "I know that our right to qualify thus the
    tendencies which were so actively opposed by the early
    Fathers is contested.  The very use of the word heresy
    seems an attack upon liberty of conscience and thought.
    We cannot share this scruple; for it would amount to
    nothing less than depriving Christianity of all
    distinctive character."

And though he tells us that after Constantine's time the Church did actually abuse its power
by designating those who dissented from it as heretics and persecuting them, yet he says, when
speaking of early times:

   "L'eglise est une libre association; il y a tout profit a se
   separer d'elle.  La polemique contre l'erreur n'a d'autres
   ressources que la pensee et le sentiment. Un type doctrinal
   uniforme n'a pas encore ete elabore; les divergences
   secondaires se produisent en Orient et en Occident avec une
   entiere liberte; la theologie n'est point liee a d'invariables
   formules.  Si au sein de cette diversite apparait un fonds
   commun de croyances, n'est-on pas en droit d'y voir non pas un
   systeme formule et compose par les representants d'une
   autorite d'ecole, mais la foi elle-meme dons son instinct le
   plus sur et sa manifestation la plus spontanee?  Si cette meme
   unanimite qui se revele dans les croyances essentielles, se
   retrouve pour repousser telles ou telles tendances ne serons
   nous pas en droit de conclure que ces tendances etaient en
   desacord flagrant avec les principes fondamentaux du
   christianisme?  Cette presomption ne se transformerait-elle
   pas en certitude si nous reconnaissons dans la doctrine
   universellement repoussee par l'Eglise les traits
   caracteristiques de l'une des religions du passe?  Pour dire
   que le gnosticisme ou l'ebionitisme sont les formes legitimes
   de la pensee chretienne il faut dire hardiment qu'il n'y a pas
   de pensee chretienne, ni de caractere specifique qui la fasse
   reconnaitre.  Sous pretexte de l'elargir, on la dissout.
   Personne au temps de Platon n'eut ose couvrir de son nom une
   doctrine qui n'eut pas fait place a la theorie des idees; et
   l'on eut excite les justes moqueries de la Grece, en voulant
   faire d'Epicure ou de Zenon un disciple de l'Academie.
   Reconnaissons donc que s'il existe une religion ou une
   doctrine qui s'appelle christianisme, elle peut avoir ses
   heresies." [see Footnote]

    [Footnote: "The Church is a free association; there is much to
    be gained by separation from it.  Conflict with error has no
    weapons other than thought and feeling.  One uniform type of
    doctrine has not yet been elaborated; divergencies in
    secondary matters arise freely in East and West; theology is
    not wedded to invariable formulas.  If in the midst of this
    diversity a mass of beliefs common to all is apparent, is one
    not justified in seeing in it, not a formulated system, framed
    by the representatives of pedantic authority, but faith itself
    in its surest instinct and its most spontaneous manifestation?
    If the same unanimity which is revealed in essential points of
    belief is found also in rejecting certain tendencies, are we
    not justified in concluding that these tendencies were in
    flagrant opposition to the fundamental principles of
    Christianity?  And will not this presumption be transformed
    into certainty if we recognize in the doctrine universally
    rejected by the Church the characteristic features of one of
    the religions of the past?  To say that gnosticism or
    ebionitism are legitimate forms of Christian thought, one must
    boldly deny the existence of Christian thought at all, or any
    specific character by which it could be recognized.  While
    ostensibly widening its realm, one undermines it.  No one in
    the time of Plato would lave ventured to give his name to a
    doctrine in which the theory of ideas had no place, and one
    would deservedly have excited the ridicule of Greece by trying
    to pass off Epicurus or Zeno as a disciple of the Academy.
    Let us recognize, then, that if a religion or a doctrine
    exists which is called Christianity, it may have its
    heresies."

The author's whole argument amounts to this: that every opinion which differs from the code
of dogmas we believe in at a given time, is heresy.  But of course at any given time and place
men always believe in something or other; and this belief in something, indefinite at any place,
at some time, cannot be a criterion of truth.

It all amounts to this: since ubi Christus ibi Ecclesia, then Christus is where we are.

Every so-called heresy, regarding, as it does, its own creed as the truth, can just as easily
find in Church history a series of illustrations of its own creed, can use all Pressense's
arguments on its own behalf, and can call its own creed the one truly Christian creed.  And
that is just what all heresies do and have always done.

The only definition of heresy (the word [GREEK WORD], means a part) is this: the name given
by a body of men to any opinion which rejects a part of the Creed professed by that body. 
The more frequent meaning, more often ascribed to the word heresy, is --that of an opinion
which rejects the Church doctrine founded and supported by the temporal authorities.

    [TRANSCRIBIST'S NOTE: The GREEK WORD above used Greek letters,
    spelled: alpha(followed by an apostrophe)-iota(with accent)-
    rho-epsilon-sigma-iota-zeta]

There is a remarkable and voluminous work, very little known, "Unpartheyische Kirchen- und
Ketzer-Historie," 1729, by Gottfried Arnold, which deals with precisely this subject, and points
out all the unlawfulness, the arbitrariness, the senselessness, and the cruelty of using the
word heretic in the sense of reprobate. This book is an attempt to write the history of Christianity
in the form of a history of heresy.

In the introduction the author propounds a series of questions: (1) Of those who make heretics;
(2) Of those whom they made heretics; (3) Of heretical subjects themselves; (4) Of the method
of making heretics; and (5) Of the object and result of making heretics.

On each of these points he propounds ten more questions, the answers to which he gives later
on from the works of well-known theologians.  But he leaves the reader to draw for himself
the principal conclusion from the expositions in the whole book.  As examples of these questions,
in which the answers are to some extent included also, I will quote the following. Under the
4th head, of the manner in which heretics are made, he says, in one of the questions (in the 7th):

   "Does not all history show that the greatest makers of
   heretics and masters of that craft were just these wise men,
   from whom the Father hid his secrets, that is, the hypocrites,
   the Pharisees, and lawyers, men utterly godless and perverted
   (Question 20-21)?  And in the corrupt times of Christianity
   were not these very men cast out, denounced by the hypocrites
   and envious, who were endowed by God with great gifts and who
   would in the days of pure Christianity have been held in high
   honor?  And, on the other hand, would not the men who, in the
   decline of Christianity raised themselves above all, and
   regarded themselves as the teachers of the purest Christianity,
   would not these very men, in the times of the apostles and
   disciples of Christ, have been regarded as the most shameless
   heretics and anti-Christians?"

He expounds, among other things in these questions, the theory that any verbal expression of
faith, such as was demanded by the Church, and the departure from which was reckoned as heresy,
could never fully cover the exact religious ideas of a believer, and that therefore the demand
for an expression of faith in certain words was ever productive of heresy, and he says, in
Question 21:

   "And if heavenly things and thoughts present themselves to a
   man's mind as so great and so profound that he does not find
   corresponding words to express them, ought one to call him a
   heretic, because he cannot express his idea with perfect
   exactness?"

And in Question 33:

   "And is not the fact that there was no heresy in the earliest
   days due to the fact that the Christians did not judge one
   another by verbal expressions, but by deed and by heart, since
   they had perfect liberty to express their ideas without the
   dread of being called heretics; was it not the easiest and most
   ordinary ecclesiastical proceeding, if the clergy wanted to get
   rid of or to ruin anyone, for them to cast suspicion on the
   person's belief, and to throw a cloak of heresy upon him, and
   by this means to procure his condemnation and removal?

   "True though it may be that there were sins and errors among
   the so-called heretics, it is no less true and evident," he
   says farther on, "from the innumerable examples quoted here
   (i. e., in the history of the Church and of heresy), that there
   was not a single sincere and conscientious man of any
   importance whom the Churchmen would not from envy or other
   causes have ruined."

Thus, almost two hundred years ago, the real meaning of heresy was understood.  And notwithstanding
that, the same conception of it has gone on existing up to now.  And it cannot fail to exist
so long as the conception of a church exists.  Heresy is the obverse side of the Church.  Wherever
there is a church, there must be the conception of heresy.  A church is a body of men who assert
that they are in possession of infallible truth.  Heresy is the opinion of the men who do not
admit the infallibility of the Church's truth.

Heresy makes its appearance in the Church.  It is the effort to break through the petrified
authority of the Church.  All effort after a living comprehension of the doctrine has been
made by heretics.  Tertullian, Origen, Augustine, Luther, Huss, Savonarola, Helchitsky, and
the rest were heretics.  It could not be otherwise.

The follower of Christ, whose service means an ever-growing understanding of his teaching,
and an ever-closer fulfillment of it, in progress toward perfection, cannot, just because he
is a follower, of Christ, claim for himself or any other that he understands Christ's teaching
fully and fulfills it.  Still less can he claim this for any body of men.

To whatever degree of understanding and perfection the follower of Christ may have attained,
he always feels the insufficiency of his understanding and fulfillment of it, and is always
striving toward a fuller understanding and fulfillment.  And therefore, to assert of one's
self or of any body of men, that one is or they are in possession of perfect understanding
and fulfillment of Christ's word, is to renounce the very spirit of Christ's teaching.

Strange as it may seem, the churches as churches have always been, and cannot but be, institutions
not only alien in spirit to Christ's teaching, but even directly antagonistic to it.  With
good reason Voltaire calls the Church l'infame; with good reason have all or almost all so-called
sects of Christians recognized the Church as the scarlet woman foretold in the Apocalypse;
with good reason is the history of the Church the history of the greatest cruelties and horrors.

The churches as churches are not, as many people suppose, institutions which have Christian
principles for their basis, even though they may have strayed a little away from the straight
path. The churches as churches, as bodies which assert their own infallibility, are institutions
opposed to Christianity.  There is not only nothing in common between the churches as such
and Christianity, except the name, but they represent two principles fundamentally opposed
and antagonistic to one another.  One represents pride, violence, self-assertion, stagnation,
and death; the other, meekness, penitence, humility, progress, and life.

We cannot serve these two masters; we have to choose between them.

The servants of the churches of all denominations, especially of later times, try to show themselves
champions of progress in Christianity.  They make concessions, wish to correct the abuses that
have slipped into the Church, and maintain that one cannot, on account of these abuses, deny
the principle itself of a Christian church, which alone can bind all men together in unity
and be a mediator between men and God.  But this is all a mistake. Not only have churches never
bound men together in unity; they have always been one of the principal causes of division
between men, of their hatred of one another, of wars, battles, inquisitions, massacres of St.
Bartholomew, and so on.  And the churches have never served as mediators between men and God.
Such mediation is not wanted, and was directly forbidden by Christ, who has revealed his teaching
directly and immediately to each man. But the churches set up dead forms in the place of God,
and far from revealing God, they obscure him from men's sight.  The churches, which originated
from misunderstanding of Christ's teaching and have maintained this misunderstanding by their
immovability, cannot but persecute and refuse to recognize all true understanding of Christ's
words.  They try to conceal this, but in vain; for every step forward along the path pointed
out for us by Christ is a step toward their destruction.

To hear and to read the sermons and articles in which Church writers of later times of all
denominations speak of Christian truths and virtues; to hear or read these skillful arguments
that have been elaborated during centuries, and exhortations and professions, which sometimes
seem like sincere professions, one is ready to doubt whether the churches can be antagonistic
to Christianity.  "It cannot be," one says, "that these people who can point to such men as
Chrysostom, Fenelon, Butler, and others professing the Christian faith, were antagonistic to
Christianity."  One is tempted to say, "The churches may have strayed away from Christianity,
they may be in error, but they cannot be hostile to it."  But we must look to the fruit to
judge the tree, as Christ taught c us.  And if we see that their fruits were evil, that the
results of their activity were antagonistic to Christianity, we cannot but admit that however
good the men were-- the work of the Church in which these men took part was not Christian.
The goodness and worth of these men who served the churches was the goodness and worth of the
men, and not of the institution they served.  All the good men, such as Francis of Assisi,
and Francis of Sales, our Tihon Zadonsky, Thomas a Kempis, and others, were good men in spite
of their serving an institution hostile to Christianity, and they would have been still better
if they had not been under the influence of the error which they were serving.

But why should we speak of the past and judge from the past, which may have been misrepresented
and misunderstood by us?  The churches, with their principles and their practice, are not a
thing of the past.  The churches are before us to-day, and we can judge of them to some purpose
by their practical activity, their influence on men.

What is the practical work of the churches to-day?  What is their influence upon men?  What
is done by the churches among us, among the Catholics and the Protestants of all denominations--what
is their practical work? and what are the results of their practical work?

The practice of our Russian so-called Orthodox Church is plain to all.  It is an enormous fact
which there is no possibility of hiding and about which there can be no disputing.

What constitutes the practical work of this Russian Church, this immense, intensely active
institution, which consists of a regiment of half a million men and costs the people tens of
millions of rubles?

The practical business of the Church consists in instilling by every conceivable means into
the mass of one hundred millions of the Russian people those extinct relics of beliefs for
which there is nowadays no kind of justification, "in which scarcely anyone now believes, and
often not even those whose duty it is to diffuse these false beliefs."  To instill into the
people the formulas of Byzantine theology, of the Trinity, of the Mother of God, of Sacraments,
of Grace, and so on, extinct conceptions, foreign to us, and having no kind of meaning for
men of our times, forms only one part of the work of the Russian Church.  Another part of its
practice consists in the maintenance of idol-worship in the most literal meaning of the word;
in the veneration of holy relics, and of ikons, the offering of sacrifices to them, and the
expectation of their answers to prayer.  I am not going to speak of what is preached and what
is written by clergy of scientific or liberal tendencies in the theological journals.  I am
going to speak of what is actually done by the clergy through the wide expanse of the Russian
land among a people of one hundred millions.  What do they, diligently, assiduously, everywhere
alike, without intermission, teach the people?  What do they demand from the people in virtue
of their (so-called) Christian faith?

I will begin from the beginning with the birth of a child.  At the birth of a child they teach
them that they must recite a prayer over the child and mother to purify them, as though without
this prayer the mother of a newborn child were unclean.  To do this the priest holds the child
in his arms before the images of the saints (called by the people plainly gods) and reads words
of exorcizing power, and this purifies the mother.  Then it is suggested to the parents, and
even exacted of them, under fear of punishment for non-fulfillment, that the child must be
baptized; that is, be dipped by the priest three times into the water, while certain words,
understood by no one, are read aloud, and certain actions, still less understood, are performed;
various parts of the body are rubbed with oil, and the hair is cut, while the sponsors blow
and spit at an imaginary devil.  All this is necessary to purify the child and to make him
a Christian.  Then it is instilled into the parents that they ought to administer the sacrament
to the child, that is, give him, in the guise of bread and wine, a portion of Christ's body
to eat, as a result of which the child receives the grace of God within it, and so on.  Then
it is suggested that the child as it grows up must be taught to pray. To pray means to place
himself directly before the wooden boards on which are painted the faces of Christ, the Mother
of God, and the saints, to bow his head and his whole body, and to touch his forehead, his
shoulders and his stomach with his right hand, holding his fingers in a certain position, and
to utter some words of Slavonic, the most usual of which as taught to all children are: Mother
of God, virgin, rejoice thee, etc., etc.

Then it is instilled into the child as it is brought up that at the sight of any church or
ikon he must repeat the same action--i. e., cross himself.  Then it is instilled into him that
on holidays (holidays are the days on which Christ was born, though no one knows when that
was, on which he was circumcised, on which the Mother of God died, on which the cross was carried
in procession, on which ikons have been set up, on which a lunatic saw a vision, and so on)--on
holidays he must dress himself in his best clothes and go to church, and must buy candles and
place them there before the images of the saints.  Then he must give offerings and prayers
for the dead, and little loaves to be cut up into three-cornered pieces, and must pray many
times for the health and prosperity of the Tzar and the bishops, and for himself and his own
affairs, and then kiss the cross and the hand of the priest. Besides these observances, it
is instilled into him that at least once a year he must confess.  To confess means to go to
the church and to tell the priest his sins, on the theory that this informing a stranger of
his sins completely purifies him from them.  And after that he must eat with a little spoon
a morsel of bread with wine, which will purify him still more.  Next it is instilled into him
that if a man and woman want their physical union to be sanctified they must go to church,
put on metal crowns, drink certain potions, walk three times round a table to the sound of
singing, and that then the physical union of a man and woman becomes sacred and altogether
different from all other such unions.

Further it is instilled into him in his life that he must observe the following rules: not
to eat butter or milk on certain days, and on certain other days to sing Te Deums and requiems
for the dead, on holidays to entertain the priest and give him money, and several times in
the year to bring the ikons from the church, and to carry them slung on his shoulders through
the fields and houses.  It is instilled into him that on his death-bed a man must not fail
to eat bread and wine with a spoon, and that it will be still better if he has time to be rubbed
with sacred oil.  This will guarantee his welfare in the future life.  After his death it is
instilled into his relatives that it is a good thing for the salvation of the dead man to place
a printed paper of prayers in his hands; it is a good thing further to read aloud a certain
book over the dead body, and to pronounce the dead man's name in church at a certain time.
All this is regarded as faith obligatory on everyone.

But if anyone wants to take particular care of his soul, then according to this faith he is
instructed that the greatest security of the salvation of the soul in the world is attained
by offering money to the churches and monasteries, and engaging the holy men by this means
to pray for him. Entering monasteries too and kissing relics and miraculous ikons, are further
means of salvation for the soul.

According to this faith ikons and relics communicate a special sanctity, power, and grace,
and even proximity to these objects, touching them, kissing them, putting candles before them,
crawling under them while they are being carried along, are all efficacious for salvation,
as well as Te Deums repeated before these holy things.

So this, and nothing else, is the faith called Orthodox, that is the actual faith which, under
the guise of Christianity, has been with all the forces of the Church, and is now with especial
zeal, instilled into the people.

And let no one say that the Orthodox teachers place the essential part of their teaching in
something else, and that all these are only ancient forms, which it is not thought necessary
to do away with.  That is false.  This, and nothing but this, is the faith taught through the
whole of Russia by the whole of the Russian clergy, and of late years with especial zeal. 
There is nothing else taught.  Something different may be talked of and written of in the capitals;
but among the hundred millions of the people this is what is done, this is what is taught,
and nothing more. Churchmen may talk of something else, but this is what they teach by every
means in their power.

All this, and the worship of relics and of ikons, has been introduced into works of theology
and into the catechisms.  Thus they teach it to the people in theory and in practice, using
every resource of authority, solemnity, pomp, and violence to impress them.  They compel the
people, by overawing them, to believe in this, and jealously guard this faith from any attempt
to free the people from these barbarous superstitions.

As I said when I published my book, Christ's teaching and his very words about non-resistance
to evil were for many years a subject for ridicule and low jesting in my eyes, and Churchmen,
far from opposing it, even encouraged this scoffing at sacred things.  But try the experiment
of saying a disrespectful word about a hideous idol which is carried sacrilegiously about Moscow
by drunken men under the name of the ikon of the Iversky virgin, and you will raise a groan
of indignation from these same Churchmen.  All that they preach is an external observance of
the rites of idolatry. And let it not be said that the one does not hinder the other, that
"These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone." 23, 3).

This was spoken of the Pharisees, who fulfilled all the external observances prescribed by
the law, and therefore the words "whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do," refer
to works of mercy and goodness, and the words "do not ye after their works, for they say and
do not," refer to their observance of ceremonies and their neglect of good works, and have
exactly the opposite meaning to that which the Churchmen try to give to the passage, interpreting
it as an injunction to observe ceremonies. External observances and the service of truth and
goodness are for the most part difficult to combine; the one excludes the other. So it was
with the Pharisees, so it is now with Church Christians.

If a man can be saved by the redemption, by sacraments, and by prayer, then he does not need
good works.

The Sermon on the Mount, or the Creed. One cannot believe in both. And Churchmen have chosen
the latter.  The Creed is taught and is read as a prayer in the churches, but the Sermon on
the Mount is excluded even from the Gospel passages read in the churches, so that the congregation
never hears it in church, except on those days when the whole of the Gospel is read.  Indeed,
it could not he otherwise.  People who believe in a wicked and senseless God-- who has cursed
the human race and devoted his own Son to sacrifice, and a part of mankind to eternal torment--cannot
believe in the God of love.  The man who believes in a God, in a Christ coming again in glory
to judge and to punish the quick and the dead, cannot believe in the Christ who bade us turn
the left cheek, judge not, forgive these that wrong us, and love our enemies.  The man who
believes in the inspiration of the Old Testament and the sacred character of David, who commanded
on his deathbed the murder of an old man who had cursed him, and whom he could not kill himself
because he was bound by an oath to him, and the similar atrocities of which the Old Testament
is full, cannot believe in the holy love of Christ.  The man who believes in the Church's doctrine
of the compatibility of warfare and capital punishment with Christianity cannot believe in
the brotherhood of all men.

And what is most important of all--the man who believes in salvation through faith in the redemption
or the sacraments, cannot devote all his powers to realizing Christ's moral teaching in his life.

The man who has been instructed by the Church in the profane doctrine that a man cannot be
saved by his own powers, but that there is another means of salvation, will infallibly rely
upon this means and not on his own powers, which, they assure him, it is sinful to trust in.

The teaching of every Church, with its redemption and sacraments, excludes the teaching of
Christ; most of all the teaching of the Orthodox Church with its idolatrous observances.

"But the people have always believed of their own accord as they believe now," will be said
in answer to this.  "The whole history of the Russian people proves it.  One cannot deprive
the people of their traditions."  This statement, too, is misleading.  The people did certainly
at one time believe in something like what the Church believes in now, though it was far from
being the same thing.  In spite of their superstitious regard for ikons, housespirits, relics,
and festivals with wreaths of birch leaves, there has still always been in the people a profound
moral and living understanding of Christianity, which there has never been in the Church as
a whole, and which is only met with in its best representatives.  But the people, notwithstanding
all the prejudices instilled into them by the government and the Church, have in their best
representatives long outgrown that crude stage of understanding, a fact which is proved by
the springing up everywhere of the rationalist sects with which Russia is swarming to-day,
and on which Churchmen are now carrying on an ineffectual warfare.  The people are advancing
to a consciousness of the moral, living side of Christianity.  And then the Church comes forward,
not borrowing from the people, but zealously instilling into them the petrified formalities
of an extinct paganism, and striving to thrust them back again into the darkness from which
they are emerging with such effort.

"We teach the people nothing new, nothing but what they believe, only in a more perfect form,"
say the Churchmen.  This is just what the man did who tied up the full-grown chicken and thrust
it back into the shell it had come out of.

I have often been irritated, though it would be comic if the consequences were not so awful,
by observing how men shut one another in a delusion and cannot get out of this magic circle.

The first question, the first doubt of a Russian who is beginning to think, is a question about
the ikons, and still more the miraculous relics: Is it true that they are genuine, and that
miracles are worked through them?  Hundreds of thousands of men put this question to themselves,
and their principal difficulty in answering it is the fact that bishops, metropolitans, and
all men in positions of authority kiss the relics and wonder-working ikons.  Ask the bishops
and men in positions of authority why they do so, and they will say they do it for the sake
of the people, while the people kiss them because the bishops and men in authority do so.

In spite of all the external varnish of modernity, learning, and spirituality which the members
of the Church begin nowadays to assume in their works, their articles, their theological journals,
and their sermons, the practical work of the Russian Church consists of nothing more than keeping
the people in their present condition of coarse and savage idolatry, and worse still, strengthening
and diffusing superstition and religious ignorance, and suppressing that living understanding
of Christianity which exists in the people side by side with idolatry.

I remember once being present in the monks' bookshop of the Optchy Hermitage while an old peasant
was choosing books for his grandson, who could read.  A monk pressed on him accounts of relics,
holidays, miraculous ikons, a psalter, etc.  I asked the old man, "Has he the Gospel?"  "No."
"Give him the Gospel in Russian," I said to the monk.  "That will not do for him," answered
the monk.  There you have an epitome of the work of our Church.

But this is only in barbarous Russia, the European and American reader will observe.  And such
an observation is just, but only so far as it refers to the government, which aids the Church
in its task of stultification and corruption in Russia.

It is true that there is nowhere in Europe a government so despotic and so closely allied with
the ruling Church.  And therefore the share of the temporal power in the corruption of the
people is greatest in Russia.  But it is untrue that the Russian Church in its influence on
the people is in any respect different from any other church.

The churches are everywhere the same, and if the Catholic, the Anglican, or the Lutheran Church
has not at hand a government as compliant as the Russian, it is not due to any indisposition
to profit by such a government.

The Church as a church, whatever it may be--Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran, Presbyterian--every
church, in so far as it is a church, cannot but strive for the same object as the Russian Church.
That object is to conceal the real meaning of Christ's teaching and to replace it by their
own, which lays no obligation on them, excludes the possibility of understanding the true teaching
of Christ, and what is the chief consideration, justifies the existence of priests supported
at the people's expense.

What else has Catholicism done, what else is it doing in its prohibition of reading the Gospel,
and in its demand for unreasoning submission to Church authorities and to an infallible Pope?
Is the religion of Catholicism any other than that of the Russian Church?  There is the same
external ritual, the same relics, miracles, and wonder-working images of Notre Dame, and the
same processions; the same loftily vague discussions of Christianity in books and sermons,
and when it comes to practice, the same supporting of the present idolatry.  And is not the
same thing done in Anglicanism, Lutheranism, and every denomination of Protestantism which
has been formed into a church?  There is the same duty laid on their congregations to believe
in the dogmas expressed in the fourth century, which have lost all meaning for men of our times,
and the same duty of idolatrous worship, if not of relics and ikons, then of the Sabbath Day
and the letter of the Bible.  There is always the same activity directed to concealing the
real duties of Christianity, and to putting in their place an external respectability and cant,
as it is so well described by the English, who are peculiarly oppressed by it.  In Protestantism
this tendency is specially remarkable because it has not the excuse of antiquity.  And does
not exactly the same thing show itself even in contemporary revivalism--the revived Calvinism
and Evangelicalism, to which the Salvation Army owes its origin?

Uniform is the attitude of all the churches to the teaching of Christ, whose name they assume
for their own advantage.

The inconsistency of all church forms of religion with the teaching of Christ is, of course,
the reason why special efforts are necessary to conceal this inconsistency from people.  Truly,
the need only imagine ourselves in the position of any grown-up man, not necessarily educated,
even the simplest man of the present day, who has picked up the ideas that are everywhere in
the air nowadays of geology, physics, chemistry, cosmography, or history, when he, for the
first time, consciously compares them with the articles of belief instilled into him in childhood,
and maintained by the churches--that God created the world in six days, and light before the
sun; that Noah shut up all the animals in his ark, and so on; that Jesus is also God the Son,
who created all before time was; that this God came down upon earth to atone for Adam's sin;
that he rose again, ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of the Father, and
will come in the clouds to judge the world, and so on.  All these propositions, elaborated
by men of the fourth century, had a certain meaning for men of that time, but for men of to-day
they have no meaning whatever.  Men of the present day can repeat these words with their lips,
but believe them they cannot.  For such sentences as that God lives in heaven, that the heavens
opened and a voice from somewhere said something, that Christ rose again, and ascended somewhere
in heaven, and again will come from somewhere on the clouds, and so on, have no meaning for us.

A man who regarded the heavens as a solid, finite vault could believe or disbelieve that God
created the heavens, that the heavens opened, that Christ ascended into heaven, but for us
all these phrases nave no sense whatever.  Men of the present can only believe, as indeed they
do, that they ought to believe in this; but believe it they cannot, because it has no meaning
for them.

Even if all these phrases ought to be interpreted in a figurative sense and are allegories,
we know that in the first place all Churchmen are not agreed about it, but, on the contrary,
the majority stick to understanding the Holy Scripture in its literal sense; and secondly,
that these allegorical interpretations are very varied and are not supported by any evidence.

But even if a man wants to force himself to believe in the doctrines of the Church just as
they are taught to him, the universal diffusion of education and of the Gospel and of communication
between people of different forms of religion presents a still more insurmountable obstacle
to his doing so.

A man of the present day need only buy a Gospel for three copecks and read through the plain
words, admitting of no misinterpretation, that Christ said to the Samaritan woman "that the
Father seeketh not worshipers at Jerusalem, nor in this mountain nor in that, but worshipers
in spirit and in truth," or the saying that "the Christian must not pray like the heathen,
nor for show, but secretly, that is, in his closet," or that Christ's follower must call no
man master or father--he need only read these words to be thoroughly convinced that the Church
pastors, who call themselves teachers in opposition to Christ's precept, and dispute among
themselves, constitute no kind of authority, and that what the Churchmen teach us is not Christianity.
Less even than that is necessary.  Even if a man nowadays did continue to believe in miracles
and did not read the Gospel, mere association with people of different forms of religion and
faith, which happens so easily in these days, compels him to doubt of the truth of his own
faith.  It was all very well when a man did not see men of any other form of religion than
his own; he believed that his form of religion was the one true one.  But a thinking man has
only to come into contact--as constantly happens in these days-- with people, equally good
and bad, of different denominations, who condemn each other's beliefs, to doubt of the truth
of the belief he professes himself.  In these days only a man who is absolutely ignorant or
absolutely indifferent to the vital questions with which religion deals, can remain in the
faith of the Church.

What deceptions and what strenuous efforts the churches must employ to continue, in spite of
all these tendencies subversive of the faith, to build churches, to perform masses, to preach,
to teach, to convert, and, most of all, to receive for it all immense emoluments, as do all
these priests, pastors, incumbents, superintendents, abbots, archdeacons, bishops, and archbishops.
They need special supernatural efforts.  And the churches do, with ever-increasing intensity
and zeal, make such efforts.  With us in Russia, besides other means, they employ, simple brute
force, as there the temporal power is willing to obey the Church.  Men who refuse an external
assent to the faith, and say so openly, are either directly punished or deprived of their rights;
men who strictly keep the external forms of religion are rewarded and given privileges.

That is how the Orthodox clergy proceed; but indeed all churches without exception avail themselves
of every means for the purpose --one of the most important of which is what is now called hypnotism.

Every art, from architecture to poetry, is brought into requisition to work its effect on men's
souls and to reduce them to a state of stupefaction, and this effect is constantly produced.
This use of hypnotizing influence on men to bring them to a state of stupefaction is especially
apparent in the proceedings of the Salvation Army, who employ new practices to which we are
unaccustomed: trumpets, drums, songs, flags, costumes, marching, dancing, tears, and dramatic
performances.

But this only displeases us because these are new practices.  Were not the old practices in
churches essentially the same, with their special lighting, gold, splendor, candles, choirs,
organ, bells, vestments, intoning, etc.?

But however powerful this hypnotic influence may be, it is not the chief nor the most pernicious
activity of the Church.  The chief and most pernicious work of the Church is that which is
directed to the deception of children--these very children of whom Christ said: "Woe to him
that offendeth one of these little ones."  From the very first awakening of the consciousness
of the child they begin to deceive him, to instill into him with the utmost solemnity what
they do not themselves believe in, and they continue to instill it into him till the deception
has by habit grown into the child's nature.  They studiously deceive the child on the most
important subject in life, and when the deception has so grown into his life that it would
be difficult to uproot it, then they reveal to him the whole world of science and reality,
which cannot by any means be reconciled with the beliefs that have been instilled into him,
leaving it to him to find his way as best he can out of these contradictions.

If one set oneself the task of trying to confuse a man so that he could not think clearly nor
free himself from the perplexity of two opposing theories of life which had been instilled
into him from childhood, one could not invent any means more effectual than the treatment of
every young man educated in our so-called Christian society.

It is terrible to think what the churches do to men. But if one imagines oneself in the position
of the men who constitute the Church, we see they could not act differently.  The churches
are placed in a dilemma: the Sermon on the Mount or the Nicene Creed--the one excludes the
other.  If a man sincerely believes in the Sermon on the Mount, the Nicene Creed must inevitably
lose all meaning and significance for him, and the Church and its representatives together
with it.  If a man believes in the Nicene Creed, that is, in the Church, that is, in those
who call themselves its representatives, the Sermon on the Mount becomes superfluous for him.
And therefore the churches cannot but make every possible effort to obscure the meaning of
the Sermon on the Mount, and to attract men to themselves.  It is only due to the intense zeal
of the churches in this direction that the influence of the churches has lasted hitherto.

Let the Church stop its work of hypnotizing the masses, and deceiving children even for the
briefest interval of time, and men would begin to understand Christ's teaching.  But this understanding
will be the end of the churches and all their influence.  And therefore the churches will not
for an instant relax their zeal in the business of hypnotizing grown-up people and deceiving
children.  This, then, is the work of the churches: to instill a false interpretation of Christ's
teaching into men, and to prevent a true interpretation of it for the majority of so- called
believers.

CHAPTER IV.

CHRISTIANITY MISUNDERSTOOD BY MEN OF SCIENCE.

Attitude of Men of Science to Religions in General--What Religion is, and What is its Significance
for the Life of Humanity-- Three Conceptions of Life--Christian Religion the Expression of
the Divine Conception of Life--Misinterpretation of Christianity by Men of Science, who Study
it in its External Manifestations Due to their Criticising it from Standpoint of Social Conception
of Life--Opinion, Resulting from this Misinterpretation, that Christ's Moral Teaching is Exaggerated
and Cannot be put into Practice--Expression of Divine Conception of Life in the Gospel--False
Ideas of Men of Science on Christianity Proceed from their Conviction that they have an Infallible
Method of Criticism--From which come Two Misconceptions in Regard to Christian Doctrine--First
Misconception, that the Teaching Cannot be put into Practice, Due to the Christian Religion
Directing Life in a Way Different from that of the Social Theory of Life--Christianity holds
up Ideal, does not lay down Rules--To the Animal Force of Man Christ Adds the Consciousness
of a Divine Force--Christianity Seems to Destroy Possibility of Life only when the Ideal held
up is Mistaken for Rule--Ideal Must Not be Lowered--Life, According to Christ's Teaching, is
Movement--The Ideal and the Precepts--Second Misconception Shown in Replacing Love and Service
of God by Love and Service of Humanity--Men of Science Imagine their Doctrine of Service of
Humanity and Christianity are Identical--Doctrine of Service of Humanity Based on Social Conception
of Life--Love for Humanity, Logically Deduced from Love of Self, has No Meaning because Humanity
is a Fiction-- Christian Love Deduced from Love of God, Finds its Object in the whole World,
not in Humanity Alone--Christianity Teaches Man to Live in Accordance with his Divine Nature--It
Shows that the Essence of the Soul of Man is Love, and that his Happiness Ensues from Love
of God, whom he Recognizes as Love within himself.

Now I will speak of the other view of Christianity which hinders the true understanding of
it--the scientific view.

Churchmen substitute for Christianity the version they have framed of it for themselves, and
this view of Christianity they regard as the one infallibly true one.

Men of science regard as Christianity only the tenets held by the different churches in the
past and present; and finding that these tenets have lost all the significance of Christianity,
they accept it as a religion which has outlived its age.

To see clearly how impossible it is to understand the Christian teaching from such a point
of view, one must form for oneself an idea of the place actually held by religions in general,
by the Christian religion in particular, in the life of mankind, and of the significance attributed
to them by science.

Just as the individual man cannot live without having some theory of the meaning of his life,
and is always, though often unconsciously, framing his conduct in accordance with the meaning
he attributes to his life, so too associations of men living in similar conditions--nations--cannot
but have theories of the meaning of their associated life and conduct ensuing from those theories.
And as the individual man, when he attains a fresh stage of growth, inevitably changes his
philosophy of life, and the grown-up man sees a different meaning in it from the child, so
too associations of men--nations--are bound to change their philosophy of life and the conduct
ensuing from their philosophy, to correspond with their development.

The difference, as regards this, between the individual man and humanity as a whole, lies in
the fact that the individual, in forming the view of life proper to the new period of life
on which he is entering and the conduct resulting from it, benefits by the experience of men
who have lived before him, who have already passed through the stage of growth upon which he
is entering.  But humanity cannot have this aid, because it is always moving along a hitherto
untrodden track, and has no one to ask how to understand life, and to act in the conditions
on which it is entering and through which no one has ever passed before.

Nevertheless, just as a man with wife and children cannot continue to look at life as he looked
at it when he was a child, so too in the face of the various changes that are taking place,
the greater density of population, the establishment of communication between different peoples,
the improvements of the methods of the struggle with nature, and the accumulation of knowledge,
humanity cannot continue to look at life as of old, and it must frame a new theory of life,
from which conduct may follow adapted to the new conditions on which it has entered and is
entering.

To meet this need humanity has the special power of producing men who give a new meaning to
the whole of human life--a theory of life from which follow new forms of activity quite different
from all preceding them.  The formation of this philosophy of life appropriate to humanity
in the new conditions on which it is entering, and of the practice resulting from it, is what
is called religion.

And therefore, in the first place, religion is not, as science imagines, a manifestation which
at one time corresponded with the development of humanity, but is afterward outgrown by it.
It is a manifestation always inherent in the life of humanity, and is as indispensable, as
inherent in humanity at the present time as at any other.  Secondly, religion is always the
theory of the practice of the future and not of the past, and therefore it is clear that investigation
of past manifestations cannot in any case grasp the essence of religion.

The essence of every religious teaching lies not in the desire for a symbolic expression of
the forces of nature, nor in the dread of these forces, nor in the craving for the marvelous,
nor in the external forms in which it is manifested, as men of science imagine; the essence
of religion lies in the faculty of men of foreseeing and pointing out the path of life along
which humanity must move in the discovery of a new theory of life, as a result of which the
whole future conduct of humanity is changed and different from all that has been before.

This faculty of foreseeing the path along which humanity must move, is common in a greater
or less degree to all men.  But in all times there have been men in whom this faculty was especially
strong, and these men have given clear and definite expression to what all men felt vaguely,
and formed a new philosophy of life from which new lines of action followed for hundreds and
thousands of years.

Of such philosophies of life we know three; two have already been passed through by humanity,
and the third is that we are passing through now in Christianity.  These philosophies of life
are three in number, and only three, not because we have arbitrarily brought the various theories
of life together under these three heads, but because all men's actions are always based on
one of these three views of life--because we cannot view life otherwise than in these three ways.

These three views of life are as follows: First, embracing the individual, or the animal view
of life; second, embracing the society, or the pagan view of life; third, embracing the whole
world, or the divine view of life.

In the first theory of life a man's life is limited to his one individuality; the aim of life
is the satisfaction of the will of this individuality.  In the second theory of life a man's
life is limited not to his own individuality, but to certain societies and classes of individuals:
to the tribe, the family, the clan, the nation; the aim of life is limited to the satisfaction
of the will of those associations of individuals.  In the third theory of life a man's life
is limited not to societies and classes of individuals, but extends to the principle and source
of life--to God.

These three conceptions of life form the foundation of all the religious that exist or have
existed.

The savage recognizes life only in himself and his personal desires. His interest in life is
concentrated on himself alone. The highest happiness for him is the fullest satisfaction of
his desires. The motive power of his life is personal enjoyment. His religion consists in propitiating
his deity and in worshiping his gods, whom he imagines as persons living only for their personal
aims.

The civilized pagan recognizes life not in himself alone, but in societies of men--in the tribe,
the clan, the family, the kingdom --and sacrifices his personal good for these societies. 
The motive power of his life is glory.  His religion consists in the exaltation of the glory
of those who are allied to him--the founders of his family, his ancestors, his rulers--and
in worshiping gods who are exclusively protectors of his clan, his family, his nation, his
government [see Footnote].

    [Footnote: The fact that so many varied forms of
    existence, as the life of the family, of the tribe,
    of the clan, of the state, and even the life of
    humanity theoretically conceived by the Positivists,
    are founded on this social or pagan theory of life,
    does not destroy the unity of this theory of life.
    All these varied forms of life are founded on the
    same conception, that the life of the individual is
    not a sufficient aim of life--that the meaning of
    life can be found only in societies of individuals.

The man who holds the divine theory of life recognizes life not in his own individuality, and
not in societies of individualities (in the family, the clan, the nation, the tribe, or the
government), but in the eternal undying source of life--in God; and to fulfill the will of
God he is ready to sacrifice his individual and family and social welfare.  The motor power
of his life is love.  And his religion is the worship in deed and in truth of the principle
of the whole--God.

The whole historic existence of mankind is nothing else than the gradual transition from the
personal, animal conception of life to the social conception of life, and from the social conception
of life to the divine conception of life.  The whole history of the ancient peoples, lasting
through thousands of years and ending with the history of Rome, is the history of the transition
from the animal, personal view of life to the social view of life.  The whole of history from
the time of the Roman Empire and the appearance of Christianity is the history of the transition,
through which we are still passing now, from the social view of life to the divine view of life.

This view of life is the last, and founded upon it is the Christian teaching, which is a guide
for the whole of our life and lies at the root of all our activity, practical and theoretic.
Yet men of what is falsely called science, pseudo-scientific men, looking at it only in its
externals, regard it as something outgrown and having no value for us.

Reducing it to its dogmatic side only--to the doctrines of the Trinity, the redemption, the
miracles, the Church, the sacraments, and so on--men of science regard it as only one of an
immense number of religions which have arisen among mankind, and now, they say, having played
out its part in history, it is outliving its own age and fading away before the light of science
and of true enlightenment.

We come here upon what, in a large proportion of case, forms the source of the grossest errors
of mankind.  Men on a lower level of understanding, when brought into contact with phenomena
of a higher order, instead of making efforts to understand them, to raise themselves up to
the point of view from which they must look at the subject, judge it from their lower standpoint,
and the less they understand what they are talking about, the more confidently and unhesitatingly
they pass judgment on it.

To the majority of learned then, looking at the living, moral teaching of Christ from the lower
standpoint of the conception of life, this doctrine appears as nothing but very indefinite
and incongruous combination of Indian asceticism, Stoic and Neoplatonic philosophy, and insubstantial
anti-social visions, which have no serious significance for our times.  Its whole meaning is
concentrated for them in its external manifestations-- in Catholicism, Protestantism, in certain
dogmas, or in the conflict with the temporal power.  Estimating the value of Christianity by
these phenomena is like a deaf man's judging of the character and quality of music by seeing
the movements of the musicians.

The result of this is that all these scientific men, from Kant, Strauss, Spencer, and Renan
down, do not understand the meaning of Christ's sayings, do not understand the significance,
the object, or the reason of their utterance, do not understand even the question to which
they form the answer.  Yet, without even taking the pains to enter into their meaning, they
refuse, if unfavorably disposed, to recognize any reasonableness in his doctrines; or if they
want to treat them indulgently, they condescend, from the height of their superiority, to correct
them, on the supposition that Christ meant to express precisely their own ideas, but did not
succeed in doing so.  They behave to his teaching much as self-assertive people talk to those
whom they consider beneath them, often supplying their companions' words: "Yes, you mean to
say this and that."  This correction is always with the aim of reducing the teaching of the
higher, divine conception of life to the level of the lower, state conception of life.

They usually say that the moral teaching of Christianity is very fine, but overexaggerated;
that to make it quite right we must reject all in it that is superfluous and unnecessary to
our manner of life.  "And the doctrine that asks too much, and requires what cannot he performed,
is worse than that which requires of men what is possible and consistent with their powers,"
these learned interpreters of Christianity maintain, repeating what was long ago asserted,
and could not but be asserted, by those who crucified the Teacher because they did not understand
him--the Jews.

It seems that in the judgment of the learned men of our time the Hebrew law--a tooth for a
tooth, and an eye for an eye--is a law of just retaliation, known to mankind five thousand
years before the law of holiness which Christ taught in its place.

It seems that all that has been done by those men who understood Christ's teaching literally
and lived in accordance with such an understanding of it, all that has been said and done by
all true Christians, by all the Christian saints, all that is now reforming the world in the
shape of socialism and communism--is simply exaggeration, not worth talking about.

After eighteen hundred years of education in Christianity the civilized world, as represented
by its most advanced thinkers, holds the conviction that the Christian religion is a religion
of dogmas; that its teaching in relation to life is unreasonable, and is an exaggeration, subversive
of the real lawful obligations of morality consistent with the nature of man; and that very
doctrine of retribution which Christ rejected, and in place of which he put his teaching, is
more practically useful for us.

To learned men the doctrine of non-resistance to evil by force is exaggerated and even irrational.
Christianity is much better without it, they think, not observing closely what Christianity,
as represented by them, amounts to.

They do not see that to say that the doctrine of nonresistance to evil is an exaggeration in
Christ's teaching is just like saying that the statement of the equality of the radii of a
circle is an exaggeration in the definition of a circle.  And those who speak thus are acting
precisely like a man who, having no idea of what a circle is, should declare that this requirement,
that every point of the circumference should be an equal distance from the center, is exaggerated.
To advocate the rejection of Christ's command of non-resistance to evil, or its adaptation
to the needs of life, implies a misunderstanding of the teaching of Christ.

And those who do so certainly do not understand it.  They do not understand that this teaching
is the institution of a new theory of life, corresponding to the new conditions on which men
have entered now for eighteen hundred years, and also the definition of the new conduct of
life which results from it.  They do not believe that Christ meant to say what he said; or
he seems to them to have said what he said in the Sermon on the Mount and in other places accidentally,
or through his lack of intelligence or of cultivation.

    [Footnote: Here, for example, is a characteristic
    view of that kind from the American journal the ARENA
    (October, 1890): "New Basis of Church Life."  Treating
    of the significance of the Sermon on the Mount and
    non-resistance to evil in particular, the author,
    being under no necessity, like the Churchmen, to
    hide its significance, says:

      "Christ in fact preached complete communism and
      anarchy; but one must learn to regard Christ always
      in his historical and psychological significance.
      Like every advocate of the love of humanity, Christ
      went to the furthest extreme in his teaching.  Every
      step forward toward the moral perfection of humanity
      is always guided by men who see nothing but their
      vocation.  Christ, in no disparaging sense be it
      said, had the typical temperament of such a reformer.
      And therefore we must remember that his precepts
      cannot be understood literally as a complete
      philosophy of life.  We ought to analyze his words
      with respect for them, but in the spirit of criticism,
      accepting what is true," etc.

    Christ would have been happy to say what he ought, but
    he was not able to express himself as exactly and
    clearly as we can in the spirit of criticism, and
    therefore let us correct him.  Luke xii.  Sell all thou hast and follow me;
and he who will not leave father, or mother, or children, or
brothers, or fields, or house, he cannot be my disciple.  Deny
thyself, take up thy cross each day and follow me.  My meat is to
do the will of him that sent me, and to perform his works.  Not my
will, but thine be done; not what I will, but as thou wilt.  Life
is to do not one's will, but the will of God.

All these principles appear to men who regard them from the standpoint of a lower conception
of life as the expression of an impulsive enthusiasm, having no direct application to life.
These principles, however, follow from the Christian theory of life, just as logically as the
principles of paying a part of one's private gains to the commonwealth and of sacrificing one's
life in defense of one's country follow from the state theory of life.

As the man of the stale conception of life said to the savage: Reflect, bethink yourself! 
The life of your individuality cannot be true life, because that life is pitiful and passing.
But the life of a society and succession of individuals, family, clan, tribe, or state, goes
on living, and therefore a man must sacrifice his own individuality for the life of the family
or the state.  In exactly the same way the Christian doctrine says to the man of the social,
state conception of life, Repent ye--[GREEK WORD]-i. e., bethink yourself, or you will be ruined.
Understand that this casual, personal life which now comes into being and to- morrow is no
more can have no permanence, that no external means, no construction of it can give it consecutiveness
and permanence. Take thought and understand that the life you are living is not real life--the
life of the family, of society, of the state will not save you from annihilation.  The true,
the rational life is only possible for man according to the measure in which he can participate,
not in the family or the state, but in the source of life--the Father; according to the measure
in which he can merge his life in the life of the Father.  Such is undoubtedly the Christian
conception of life, visible in every utterance of the Gospel.

    [TRANSCRIBIST'S NOTE: The GREEK WORD above used Greek letters,
    spelled: mu-epsilon-tau-alpha-nu-omicron-zeta-epsilon-tau-
    epsilon]

One may not share this view of life, one may reject it, one may show its inaccuracy and its
erroneousness, but we cannot judge of the Christian teaching without mastering this view of
life.  Still less can one criticise a subject on a higher plane from a lower point of view.
From the basement one cannot judge of the effect of the spire.  But this is just what the learned
critics of the day try to do.  For they share the erroneous idea of the orthodox believers
that they are in possession of certain infallible means for investigating a subject.  They
fancy if they apply their so- called scientific methods of criticism, there can be no doubt
of their conclusion being correct.

This testing the subject by the fancied infallible method of science is the principal obstacle
to understanding the Christian religion for unbelievers, for so-called educated people.  From
this follow all the mistakes made by scientific men about the Christian religion, and especially
two strange misconceptions which, more than everything else, hinder them from a correct understanding
of it.  One of these misconceptions is that the Christian moral teaching cannot be carried
out, and that therefore it has either no force at all--that is, it should not be accepted as
the rule of conduct--or it must be transformed, adapted to the limits within which its fulfillment
is possible in our society. Another misconception is that the Christian doctrine of love of
God, and therefore of his service, is an obscure, mystic principle, which gives no definite
object for love, and should therefore be replaced by the more exact and comprehensible principles
of love for men and the service of humanity.

The first misconception in regard to the impossibility of following the principle is the result
of men of the state conception of life unconsciously taking that conception as the standard
by which the Christian religion directs men, and taking the Christian principle of perfection
as the rule by which that life is to be ordered; they think and say that to follow Christ's
teaching is impossible, because the complete fulfillment of all that is required by this teaching
would put an end to life.  "If a man were to carry out all that Christ teaches, he would destroy
his own life; and if all men carried it out, then the human race would come to an end," they say.

"If we take no thought for the morrow, what we shall eat and what we shall drink, and wherewithal
we shall be clothed, do not defend our life, nor resist evil by force, lay down our life for
others, and observe perfect chastity, the human race cannot exist," they say.

And they are perfectly right if they take the principle of perfection given by Christ's teaching
as a rule which everyone is bound to fulfill, just as in the state principles of life everyone
is bound to carry out the rule of paying taxes, supporting the law, and so on.

The misconception is based precisely on the fact that the teaching of Christ guides men differently
from the way in which the precepts founded on the lower conception of life guide men.  The
precepts of the state conception of life only guide men by requiring of them an exact fulfillment
of rules or laws.  Christ's teaching guides men by pointing them to the infinite perfection
of their heavenly Father, to which every man independently and voluntarily struggles, whatever
the degree of his imperfection in the present.

The misunderstanding of men who judge of the Christian principle from the point of view of
the state principle, consists in the fact that on the supposition that the perfection which
Christ points to, can be fully attained, they ask themselves (just as they ask the same question
on the supposition that state laws will be carried out) what will be the result of all this
being carried out?  This supposition cannot be made, because the perfection held up to Christians
is infinite and can never be attained; and Christ lays down his principle, having in view the
fact that absolute perfection can never be attained, but that striving toward absolute, infinite
perfection will continually increase the blessedness of men, and that this blessedness may
be increased to infinity thereby.

Christ is teaching not angels, but men, living and moving in the animal life. And so to this
animal force of movement Christ, as it were, applies the new force-the recognition of Divide
perfection- and thereby directs the movement by the resultant of these two forces..

To suppose that human life is going in the direction to which Christ pointed it, is just like
supposing that a little boat afloat on a rabid river, and directing its course almost exactly
against the current, will progress in that direction.

Christ recognizes the existence of both sides of the parallelogram, of both eternal indestructible
forces of which the life of man is compounded: the force of his animal nature and the force
of the consciousness of Kinship to God.  Saying nothing of the animal force which asserts itself,
remains always the same, and is therefore independent of human will, Christ speaks only of
the Divine force, calling upon a man to know it more closely, to set it more free from all
that retards it, and to carry it to a higher degree of intensity.

In the process of liberating, of strengthening this force, the true life of man, according
to Christ's teaching, consists.  The true life, according to preceding religions, consists
in carrying out rules, the law; according to Christ's teaching it consists in an ever closer
approximation to the divine perfection hell up before every man, and recognized within himself
by every man, in an ever closer and closer approach to the perfect fusion of his will in the
will of God, that fusion toward which man strives, and the attainment of which would be the
destruction of the life me know.

The divine perfection is the asymptote of human life to which it is always striving, and always
approaching, though it can only be reached in infinity.

The Christian religion seems to exclude the possibility life only when men mistake the pointing
to an ideal as the laying down of a rule.  It is only then that the principles presented in
Christ's teaching appear to be destructive of life.  These principles, on the contrary, are
the only ones that make true life possible. Without these principles true life could not be
possible.

"One ought not to expect so much," is what people usually say in discussing the requirements
of the Christian religion.  "One cannot expect to take absolutely no thought for the morrow,
as is said in the Gospel, but only not to take too much thought for it; one cannot give away
all to the poor, but one must give away a certain definite part; one need not aim at virginity,
but one must avoid debauchery; one need not forsake wife and children, but one must not give
too great a place to them in one's heart," and so on.

But to speak like this is just like telling a man who is struggling on a swift river and is
directing his course against the current, that it is impossible to cross the river rowing against
the current, and that to cross it he must float in the direction of the point he wants to reach.

In reality, in order to reach the place to which he wants to go, he must row with all his strength
toward a point much higher up.

To let go the requirements of the ideal means not only to diminish the possibility of perfection,
but to make an end of the ideal itself.  The ideal that has power over men is not an ideal
invented by someone, but the ideal that every man carries within his soul.  Only this ideal
of complete infinite perfection has power over men, and stimulates them to action.  A moderate
perfection loses its power of influencing men's hearts.

Christ's teaching only has power when it demands absolute perfection--that is, the fusion of
the divine nature which exists in every man's soul with the will of God--the union of the Son
with the Father.  Life according to Christ's teaching consists of nothing but this setting
free of the Son of God, existing in every man, from the animal, and in bringing him closer
to the Father.

The animal existence of a man does not constitute human life alone.   Life, according to the
will of God only, is also not human life.  Human life is a combination of the animal life and
the divine life.  And the more this combination approaches to the divine life, the more life
there is in it.

Life, according to the Christian religion, is a progress toward the divine perfection.  No
one condition, according to this doctrine, can be higher or lower than another.  Every condition,
according to this doctrine, is only a particular stage, of no consequence in itself, on the
way toward unattainable perfection, and therefore in itself it does not imply a greater or
lesser degree of life.  Increase of life, according to this, consists in nothing but the quickening
of the progress toward perfection.  And therefore the progress toward perfection of the publican
Zaccheus, of the woman that was a sinner, and of the robber on the cross, implies a higher
degree of life than the stagnant righteousness of the Pharisee.  And therefore for this religion
there cannot be rules which it is obligatory to obey.  The man who is at a lower level but
is moving onward toward perfection is living a more moral, a better life, is more fully carrying
out Christ's teaching, than the man on a much higher level of morality who is not moving onward
toward perfection.

It is in this sense that the lost sheep is dearer to the Father than those that were not lost.
The prodigal son, the piece of money lost and found again, were more precious than those that
were not lost.

The fulfillment of Christ's teaching consists in moving away from self toward God.  It is obvious
that there cannot be definite laws and rules for this fulfillment of the teaching.  Every degree
of perfection and every degree of imperfection are equal in it; no obedience to laws constitutes
a fulfillment of this doctrine, and therefore for it there can be no binding rules and laws.

From this fundamental distinction between the religion of Christ and all preceding religions
based on the state conception of life, follows a corresponding difference in the special precepts
of the state theory and the Christian precepts.  The precepts of the state theory of life insist
for the most part on certain practical prescribed acts, by which men are justified and secure
of being right.  The Christian precepts (the commandment of love is not a precept in the strict
sense of the word, but the expression of the very essence of the religion) are the five commandments
of the Sermon on the Mount--all negative in character.  They show only what at a certain stage
of development of humanity men may not do.

These commandments are, as it were, signposts on the endless road to perfection, toward which
humanity is moving, showing the point of perfection which is possible at a certain period in
the development of humanity.

Christ has given expression in the Sermon on the Mount to the eternal ideal toward which men
are spontaneously struggling, and also the degree of attainment of it to which men may reach
in our times.

The ideal is not to desire to do ill to anyone, not to provoke ill will, to love all men. 
The precept, showing the level below which we cannot fall in the attainment of this ideal,
is the prohibition of evil speaking.  And that is the first command.

The ideal is perfect chastity, even in thought.  The precept, showing the level below which
we cannot fall in the attainment of this ideal, is that of purity of married life, avoidance
of debauchery.  That is the second command.

The ideal is to take no thought for the future, to live in the present moment.  The precept,
showing the level below which we cannot fall, is the prohibition of swearing, of promising
anything in the future.  And that is the third command.

The ideal is never for any purpose to use force.  The precept, showing the level below which
we cannot fall is that of returning good for evil, being patient under wrong, giving the cloak
also. That is the fourth command.

The ideal is to love the enemies who hate us.  The precept, showing the level below which we
cannot fall, is not to do evil to our enemies, to speak well of them, and to make no difference
between them and our neighbors.

All these precepts are indications of what, on our journey to perfection, we are already fully
able to avoid, and what we must labor to attain now, and what we ought by degrees to translate
into instinctive and unconscious habits.  But these precepts, far from constituting the whole
of Christ's teaching and exhausting it, are simply stages on the way to perfection.  These
precepts must and will be followed by higher and higher precepts on the way to the perfection
held up by the religion.

And therefore it is essentially a part of the Christian religion to make demands higher than
those expressed in its precepts; and by no means to diminish the demands either of the ideal
itself, or of the precepts, as people imagine who judge it from the standpoint of the social
conception of life.

So much for one misunderstanding of the scientific men, in relation to the import and aim of
Christ's teaching.  Another misunderstanding arising from the same source consists in substituting
love for men, the service of humanity, for the Christian principles of love for God and his
service.

The Christian doctrine to love God and serve him, and only as a result of that love to love
and serve one's neighbor, seems to scientific men obscure, mystic, and arbitrary.  And they
would absolutely exclude the obligation of love and service of God, holding that the doctrine
of love for men, for humanity alone, is far more clear, tangible, and reasonable.

Scientific men teach in theory that the only good and rational life is that which is devoted
to the service of the whole of humanity.  That is for them the import of the Christian doctrine,
and to that they reduce Christ's teaching.  They seek confirmation of their own doctrine in
the Gospel, on the supposition that the two doctrines are really the same.

This idea is an absolutely mistaken one.  The Christian doctrine has nothing in common with
the doctrine of the Positivists, Communists, and all the apostles of the universal brotherhood
of mankind, based on the general advantage of such a brotherhood. They differ from one another
especially in Christianity's having a firm and clear basis in the human soul, while love for
humanity is only a theoretical deduction from analogy.

The doctrine of love for humanity alone is based on the social conception of life.

The essence of the social conception of life consists in the transference of the aim of the
individual life to the life of societies of individuals: family, clan, tribe, or state.  This
transference is accomplished easily and naturally in its earliest forms, in the transference
of the aim of life from the individual to the family and the clan.  The transference to the
tribe or the nation is more difficult and requires special training.  And the transference
of the sentiment to the state is the furthest limit which the process can reach.

To love one's self is natural to everyone, and no one needs any encouragement to do so.  To
love one's clan who support and protect one, to love one's wife, the joy and help of one's
existence, one's children, the hope and consolation of one's life, and one's parents, who have
given one life and education, is natural.  And such love, though far from being so strong as
love of self, is met with pretty often.

To love--for one's own sake, through personal pride--one's tribe, one's nation, though not
so natural, is nevertheless common.  Love of one's own people who are of the same blood, the
same tongue, and the same religion as one's self is possible, though far from being so strong
as love of self, or even love of family or clan. But love for a state, such as Turkey, Germany,
England, Austria, or Russia is a thing almost impossible.  And though it is zealously inculcated,
it is only an imagined sentiment; it has no existence in reality.  And at that limit man's
power of transferring his interest ceases, and he cannot feel any direct sentiment for that
fictitious entity.  The Positivists, however, and all the apostles of fraternity on scientific
principles, without taking into consideration the weakening of sentiment in proportion to the
extension of its object, draw further deductions in theory in the same direction.  "Since,"
they say, "it was for the advantage of the individual to extend his personal interest to the
family, the tribe, and subsequently to the nation and the state, it would be still more advantageous
to extend his interest in societies of men to the whole of mankind, and so all to live for
humanity just as men live for the family or the state."

Theoretically it follows, indeed, having extended the love and interest for the personality
to the family, the tribe, and thence to the nation and the state, it would be perfectly logical
for men to save themselves the strife and calamities which result from the division of mankind
into nations and states by extending their love to the whole of humanity.  This would be most
logical, and theoretically nothing would appear more natural to its advocates, who do not observe
that love is a sentiment which may or may not he felt, but which it is useless to advocate;
and moreover, that love must have an object, and that humanity is not an object.  It is nothing
but a fiction.

The family, the tribe, even the state were not invented by men, but formed themselves spontaneously,
like ant-hills or swarms of bees, and have a real existence.  The man who, for the sake of
his own animal personality, loves his family, knows whom he loves: Anna, Dolly, John, Peter,
and so on.  The man who loves his tribe and takes pride in it, knows that he loves all the
Guelphs or all the Ghibellines; the man who loves the state knows that he loves France bounded
by the Rhine, and the Pyrenees, and its principal city Paris, and its history and so on.  But
the man who loves humanity--what does he love?  There is such a thing as a state, as a nation;
there is the abstract conception of man; but humanity as a concrete idea does not, and cannot
exist.

Humanity!  Where is the definition of humanity?  Where does it end and where does it begin?
Does humanity end with the savage, the idiot, the dipsomaniac, or the madman?  If we draw a
line excluding from humanity its lowest representatives, where are we to draw the line?  Shall
we exclude the negroes like the Americans, or the Hindoos like some Englishmen, or the Jews
like some others?  If we include all men without exception, why should we not include also
the higher animals, many of whom are superior to the lowest specimens of the human race.

We know nothing of humanity as an eternal object, and we know nothing of its limits.  Humanity
is a fiction, and it is impossible to love it.  It would, doubtless, be very advantageous if
men could love humanity just as they love their family.  It would be very advantageous, as
Communists advocate, to replace the competitive, individualistic organization of men's activity
by a social universal organization, so that each would be for all and all for each.

Only there are no motives to lead men to do this.  The Positivists, the Communists, and all
the apostles of fraternity on scientific principles advocate the extension to the whole of
humanity of the love men feel for themselves, their families, and the state.  They forget that
the love which they are discussing is a personal love, which might expand in a rarefied form
to embrace a man's native country, but which disappears before it can embrace an artificial
state such as Austria, England, or Turkey, and which we cannot even conceive of in relation
to all humanity, an absolutely mystic conception.

"A man loves himself (his animal personality), he loves his family, he even loves his native
country.  Why should he not love humanity?  That would be such an excellent thing.  And by
the way, it is precisely what is taught by Christianity."  So think the advocates of Positivist,
Communistic, or Socialistic fraternity.

It would indeed be an excellent thing.  But it can never be, for the love that is based on
a personal or social conception of life can never rise beyond love for the state.

The fallacy of the argument lies in the fact that the social conception of life, on which love
for family and nation is founded, rests itself on love of self, and that love grows weaker
and weaker as it is extended from self to family, tribe, nationality, and slate; and in the
state we reach the furthest limit beyond which it cannot go.

The necessity of extending the sphere of love is beyond dispute. But in reality the possibility
of this love is destroyed by the necessity of extending its object indefinitely.  And thus
the insufficiency of personal human love is made manifest.

And here the advocates of Positivist, Communistic, Socialistic fraternity propose to draw upon
Christian love to make up the default of this bankrupt human love; but Christian love only
in its results, not in its foundations.  They propose love for humanity alone, apart from love
for God.

But such a love cannot exist.  There is no motive to produce it. Christian love is the result
only of the Christian conception of life, in which the aim of life is to love and serve God.

The social conception of life has led men, by a natural transition from love of self and then
of family, tribe, nation, and state, to a consciousness of the necessity of love for humanity,
a conception which has no definite limits and extends to all living things.  And this necessity
for love of what awakens no kind of sentiment in a man is a contradiction which cannot be solved
by the social theory of life.

The Christian doctrine in its full significance can alone solve it, by giving a new meaning
to life.  Christianity recognizes love of self, of family, of nation, and of humanity, and
not only of humanity, but of everything living, everything existing; it recognizes the necessity
of an infinite extension of the sphere of love.  But the object of this love is not found outside
self in societies of individuals, nor in the external world, but within self, in the divine
self whose essence is that very love, which the animal self is brought to feel the need of
through its consciousness of its own perishable nature.

The difference between the Christian doctrine and those which preceded it is that the social
doctrine said: "Live in opposition to your nature [understanding by this only the animal nature],
make it subject to the external law of family, society, and state."  Christianity says: "Live
according to your nature [understanding by this the divine nature]; do not make it subject
to anything--neither you (an animal self) nor that of others--and you will attain the very
aim to which you are striving when you subject your external self."

The Christian doctrine brings a man to the elementary consciousness of self, only not of the
animal self, but of the divine self, the divine spark, the self as the Son of God, as much
God as the Father himself, though confined in an animal husk.  The consciousness of being the
Son of God, whose chief characteristic is love, satisfies the need for the extension of the
sphere of love to which the man of the social conception of life had been brought.  For the
latter, the welfare of the personality demanded an ever-widening extension of the sphere of
love; love was a necessity and was confined to certain objects--self, family, society.  With
the Christian conception of life, love is not a necessity and is confined to no object; it
is the essential faculty of the human soul.  Man loves not because it is his interest to love
this or that, but because love is the essence of his soul, because he cannot but love.

The Christian doctrine shows man that the essence of his soul is love--that his happiness depends
not on loving this or that object, but on loving the principle of the whole--God, whom he recognizes
within himself as love, and therefore he loves all things and all men.

In this is the fundamental difference between the Christian doctrine and the doctrine of the
Positivists, and all the theorizers about universal brotherhood on non-Christian principles.

Such are the two principal misunderstandings relating to the Christian religion, from which
the greater number of false reasonings about it proceed.  The first consists in the belief
that Christ's teaching instructs men, like all previous religions, by rules, which they are
bound to follow, and that these rules cannot be fulfilled.  The second is the idea that the
whole purport of Christianity is to teach men to live advantageously together, as one family,
and that to attain this we need only follow the rule of love to humanity, dismissing all thought
of love of God altogether.

The mistaken notion of scientific men that the essence of Christianity consists in the supernatural,
and that its moral teaching is impracticable, constitutes another reason of the failure of
men of the present day to understand Christianity.

CHAPTER V.

CONTRADICTION BETWEEN OUR LIFE AND OUR CHRISTIAN CONSCIENCE.

Men Think they can Accept Christianity without Altering their Life--Pagan Conception of Life
does not Correspond with Present Stage of Development of Humanity, and Christian Conception
Alone Can Accord with it--Christian Conception of Life not yet Understood by Men, but the Progress
of Life itself will Lead them Inevitably to Adopt it--The Requirements of a New Theory of Life
Always Seem Incomprehensible, Mystic, and Supernatural --So Seem the Requirements of the Christian
Theory of Life to the Majority of Men--The Absorption of the Christian Conception of Life will
Inevitably be Brought About as the Result of Material and Spiritual Causes--The Fact of Men
Knowing the Requirements of the Higher View of Life, and yet Continuing to Preserve Inferior
Organizations of Life, Leads to Contradictions and Sufferings which Embitter Existence and
Must Result in its Transformation--The Contradictions of our Life-- The Economic Contradiction
and the Suffering Induced by it for Rich and Poor Alike--The Political Contradiction and the
Sufferings Induced by Obedience to the Laws of the State--The International Contradiction and
the Recognition of it by Contemporaries: Komarovsky, Ferri, Booth, Passy, Lawson, Wilson, Bartlett,
Defourney, Moneta--The Striking Character of the Military Contradiction.

There are many reasons why Christ's teaching is not understood. One reason is that people suppose
they have understood it when they have decided, as the Churchmen do, that it was revealed by
supernatural means, or when they have studied, as the scientific men do, the external forms
in which it has been manifested. Another reason is the mistaken notion that it is impracticable,
and ought to be replaced by the doctrine of love for humanity. But the principal reason, which
is the source of all the other mistaken ideas about it, is the notion that Christianity is
a doctrine which can be accepted or rejected without any change of life.

Men who are used to the existing order of things, who like it and dread its being changed,
try to take the doctrine as a collection of revelations and rules which one can accept without
their modifying one's life.  While Christ's teaching is not only a doctrine which gives rules
which a man must follow, it unfolds a new meaning in life, and defines a whole world of human
activity quite different from all that has preceded it and appropriate to the period on which
man is entering.

The life of humanity changes and advances, like the life of the individual, by stages, and
every stage has a theory of life appropriate to it, which is inevitably absorbed by men.  Those
who do not absorb it consciously, absorb it unconsciously.  It is the same with the changes
in the beliefs of peoples and of all humanity as it is with the changes of belief of individuals.
If the father of a family continues to be guided in his conduct by his childish conceptions
of life, life becomes so difficult for him that he involuntarily seeks another philosophy and
readily absorbs that which is appropriate to his age.

That is just what is happening now to humanity at this time of transition through which we
are passing, from the pagan conception of life to the Christian.  The socialized man of the
present day is brought by experience of life itself to the necessity of abandoning the pagan
conception of life, which is inappropriate to the present stage of humanity, and of submitting
to the obligation of the Christian doctrines, the truths of which, however corrupt and misinterpreted,
are still known to him, and alone offer him a solution of the contradictions surrounding him.

If the requirements of the Christian doctrine seem strange and even alarming to the than of
the social theory of life, no less strange, incomprehensible, and alarming to the savage of
ancient times seemed the requirements of the social doctrine when it was not fully understood
and could not be foreseen in its results.

"It is unreasonable," said the savage, "to sacrifice my peace of mind or my life in defense
of something incomprehensible, impalpable, and conventional--family, tribe, or nation; and
above all it is unsafe to put oneself at the disposal of the power of others."

But the time came when the savage, on one hand, felt, though vaguely, the value of the social
conception of life, and of its chief motor power, social censure, or social approbation--glory,
and when, on the other hand, the difficulties of his personal life became so great that he
could not continue to believe in the value of his old theory of life.  Then he accepted the
social, state theory of life and submitted to it.

That is just what the man of the social theory of life is passing through now.

"It is unreasonable," says the socialized man, "to sacrifice my welfare and that of my family
and my country in order to fulfill some higher law, which requires me to renounce my most natural
and virtuous feelings of love of self, of family, of kindred, and of country; and above all,
it is unsafe to part with the security of life afforded by the organization of government."

But the time is coming when, on one hand, the vague consciousness in his soul of the higher
law, of love to God and his neighbor, and, on the other hand, the suffering, resulting from
the contradictions of life, will force the man to reject the social theory and to assimilate
the new one prepared ready for him, which solves all the contradictions and removes all his
sufferings--the Christian theory of life.  And this time has now come.

We, who thousands of years ago passed through the transition, from the personal, animal view
of life to the socialized view, imagine that that transition was an inevitable and natural
one; but this transition though which we have been passing for the last eighteen hundred years
seems arbitrary, unnatural, and alarming.  But we only fancy this because that first transition
has been so fully completed that the practice attained by it has become unconscious and instinctive
in us, while the present transition is not yet over and we have to complete it consciously.

It took ages, thousands of years, for the social conception of life to permeate men's consciousness.
It went through various forms and has now passed into the region of the instinctive through
inheritance, education, and habit.  And therefore it seems natural to us.  But five thousand
years ago it seemed as unnatural and alarming to men as the Christian doctrine in its true
sense seems to-day.

We think to-day that the requirements of the Christian doctrine-- of universal brotherhood,
suppression of national distinctions, abolition of private property, and the strange injunction
of non- resistance to evil by force--demand what is impossible.  But it was just the same thousands
of years ago, with every social or even family duty, such as the duty of parents to support
their children, of the young to maintain the old, of fidelity in marriage.  Still more strange,
and even unreasonable, seemed the state duties of submitting to the appointed authority, and
paying taxes, and fighting in defense of the country, and so on.  All such requirements seem
simple, comprehensible, and natural to us to-day, and we see nothing mysterious or alarming
in them.  But three or five thousand years ago they seemed to require what was impossible.

The social conception of life served as the basis of religion because at the time when it was
first presented to men it seemed to them absolutely incomprehensible, mystic, and supernatural.
Now that we have outlived that phase of the life of humanity, we understand the rational grounds
for uniting men in families, communities, and states.  But in antiquity the duties involved
by such association were presented under cover of the supernatural and were confirmed by it.

The patriarchal religions exalted the family, the tribe, the nation.  State religions deified
emperors and states.  Even now most ignorant people--like our peasants, who call the Tzar an
earthly god--obey state laws, not through any rational recognition of their necessity, nor
because they have any conception of the meaning of state, but through a religious sentiment.

In precisely the same way the Christian doctrine is presented to men of the social or heathen
theory of life to-day, in the guise of a supernatural religion, though there is in reality
nothing mysterious, mystic, or supernatural about it.  It is simply the theory of life which
is appropriate to the present degree of material development, the present stage of growth of
humanity, and which must therefore inevitably be accepted.

The time will come--it is already coming--when the Christian principles of equality and fraternity,
community of property, non- resistance of evil by force, will appear just as natural and simple
as the principles of family or social life seem to us now.

Humanity can no more go backward in its development than the individual man.  Men have outlived
the social, family, and state conceptions of life. Now they must go forward and assimilate
the next and higher conception of life, which is what is now taking place.  This change is
brought about in two ways: consciously through spiritual causes, and unconsciously through
material causes.

Just as the individual man very rarely changes his way of life at the dictates of his reason
alone, but generally continues to live as before, in spite of the new interests and aims revealed
to him by his reason, and only alters his way of living when it has become absolutely opposed
to his conscience, and consequently intolerable to him; so, too, humanity, long after it has
learnt through its religions the new interests and aims of life, toward which it must strive,
continues in the majority of its representatives to live as before, and is only brought to
accept the new conception by finding it impossible to go on living its old life as before.

Though the need of a change of life is preached by the religious leaders and recognized and
realized by the most intelligent men, the majority, in spite of their reverential attitude
to their leaders, that is, their faith in their teaching, continue to be guided by the old
theory of life in their present complex existence.  As though the father of a family, knowing
how he ought to behave at his age, should yet continue through habit and thoughtlessness to
live in the same childish way as he did in boyhood.

That is just what is happening in the transition of humanity from one stage to another, through
which we are passing now.  Humanity has outgrown its social stage and has entered upon a new
period. It recognizes the doctrine which ought to be made the basis of life in this new period.
But through inertia it continues to keep up the old forms of life.  From this inconsistency
between the new conception of life and practical life follows a whole succession of contradictions
and sufferings which embitter our life and necessitate its alteration.

One need only compare the practice of life with the theory of it, to be dismayed at the glaring
antagonism between our conditions of life and our conscience.

Our whole life is in flat contradiction with all we know, and with all we regard as necessary
and right.  This contradiction runs through everything, in economic life, in political life,
and in international life.  As though the had forgotten what we knew and put away for a time
the principles we believe in (we cannot help still believing in them because they are the only
foundation we have to base our life on) we do the very opposite of all that our conscience
and our common sense require of us.

We are guided in economical, political, and international questions by the principles which
were appropriate to men of three or five thousand years ago, though they are directly opposed
to our conscience and the conditions of life in which we are placed to-day.

It was very well for the man of ancient times to live in a society based on the division of
mankind into masters and slaves, because he believed that such a distinction was decreed by
God and must always exist.  But is such a belief possible in these days?

The man of antiquity could believe he had the right to enjoy the good things of this world
at the expense of other men, and to keep them in misery for generations, since he believed
that men came from different origins, were base or noble in blood, children of Ham or of Japhet.
The greatest sages of the world, the teachers of humanity, Plato and Aristotle, justified the
existence of slaves and demonstrated the lawfulness of slavery; and even three centuries ago,
the men who described an imaginary society of the future, Utopia, could not conceive of it
without slaves.

Men of ancient and medieval times believed, firmly believed, that men are not equal, that the
only true men are Persians, or Greeks, or Romans, or Franks.  But we cannot believe that now.
And people who sacrifice themselves for the principles of aristocracy and of patriotism to-duty,
don't believe and can't believe what they assert.

We all know and cannot help knowing--even though we may never have heard the idea clearly expressed,
may never have read of it, and may never have put it into words, still through unconsciously
imbibing the Christian sentiments that are in the air--with our whole heart we know and cannot
escape knowing the fundamental truth of the Christian doctrine, that we are all sons of one
Father, wherever we may live and whatever language we may speak; we are all brothers and are
subject to the same law of love implanted by our common Father in our hearts.

Whatever the opinions and degree of education of a man of to-day, whatever his shade of liberalism,
whatever his school of philosophy, or of science, or of economics, however ignorant or superstitious
he may be, every man of the present day knows that all men have an equal right to life and
the good things of life, and that one set of people are no better nor worse than another, that
all are equal.  Everyone knows this, beyond doubt; everyone feels it in his whole being.  Yet
at the same time everyone sees all round him the division of men into two castes--the one,
laboring, oppressed, poor, and suffering, the other idle, oppressing, luxurious, and profligate.
And everyone not only sees this, but voluntarily or involuntarily, in one way or another, he
takes part in maintaining this distinction which his conscience condemns.  And he cannot help
suffering from the consciousness of this contradiction and his share in it.

Whether he be master or slave, the man of to-day cannot help constantly feeling the painful
opposition between his conscience and actual life, and the miseries resulting from it.

The toiling masses, the immense majority of mankind who are suffering under the incessant,
meaningless, and hopeless toil and privation in which their whole life is swallowed up, still
find their keenest suffering in the glaring contrast between what is and what ought to be,
according to all the beliefs held by themselves, and those who have brought them to that condition
and keep them in it.

They know that they are in slavery and condemned to privation and darkness to minister to the
lusts of the minority who keep them down.  They know it, and they say so plainly.  And this
knowledge increases their sufferings and constitutes its bitterest sting.

The slave of antiquity knew that he was a slave by nature, but our laborer, while he feels
he is a slave, knows that he ought not to be, and so he tastes the agony of Tantalus, forever
desiring and never gaining what might and ought to be his.

The sufferings of the working classes, springing from the contradiction between what is and
what ought to be, are increased tenfold by the envy and hatred engendered by their consciousness
of it.

The laborer of the present day would not cease to suffer even if his toil were much lighter
than that of the slave of ancient times, even if he gained an eight-hour working day and a
wage of three dollars a day.  For he is working at the manufacture of things which he will
not enjoy, working not by his own will for his own benefit, but through necessity, to satisfy
the desires of luxurious and idle people in general, and for the profit of a single rich man,
the owner of a factory or workshop in particular. And he knows that all this is going on in
a world in which it is a recognized scientific principle that labor alone creates wealth, and
that to profit by the labor of others is immoral, dishonest, and punishable by law; in a world,
moreover, which professes to believe Christ's doctrine that we are all brothers, and that true
merit and dignity is to be found in serving one's neighbor, not in exploiting him.  All this
he knows, and he cannot but suffer keenly from the sharp contrast between what is and what
ought to be.

"According to all principles, according to all I know, and what everyone professes," the workman
says to himself.  "I ought to be free, equal to everyone else, and loved; and I am--a slave,
humiliated and hated."  And he too is filled with hatred and tries to find means to escape
from his position, to shake off the enemy who is over-riding him, and to oppress him in turn.
People say, "Workmen have no business to try to become capitalists, the poor to try to put
themselves in the place of the rich."  That is a mistake.  The workingmen and the poor would
be wrong if they tried to do so in a world in which slaves and masters were regarded as different
species created by God; but they are living in a world which professes the faith of the Gospel,
that all are alike sons of God, and so brothers and equal.  And however men may try to conceal
it, one of the first conditions of Christian life is love, not in words but in deeds.

The man of the so-called educated classes lives in still more glaring inconsistency and suffering.
Every educated man, if he believes in anything, believes in the brotherhood of all men, or
at least he has a sentiment of humanity, or else of justice, or else he believes in science.
And all the while he knows that his whole life is framed on principles in direct opposition
to it all, to all the principles of Christianity, humanity, justice, and science.

He knows that all the habits in which he has been brought up, and which he could not give up
without suffering, can only be satisfied through the exhausting, often fatal, toil of oppressed
laborers, that is, through the most obvious and brutal violation of the principles of Christianity,
humanity, and justice, and even of science (that is, economic science).  He advocates the principles
of fraternity, humanity, justice, and science, and yet he lives so that he is dependent on
the oppression of the working classes, which he denounces, and his whole life is based on the
advantages gained by their oppression.  Moreover he is directing every effort to maintaining
this state of things so flatly opposed to all his beliefs.

We are all brothers--and yet every morning a brother or a sister must empty the bedroom slops
for me.  We are all brothers, but every morning I must have a cigar, a sweetmeat, an ice, and
such things, which my brothers and sisters have been wasting their health in manufacturing,
and I enjoy these things and demand them. We are all brothers, yet I live by working in a bank,
or mercantile house, or shop at making all goods dearer for my brothers.  We are all brothers,
but I live on a salary paid me for prosecuting, judging, and condemning the thief or the prostitute
whose existence the whole tenor of my life tends to bring about, and who I know ought not to
be punished but reformed.  We are all brothers, but I live on the salary I gain by collecting
taxes from needy laborers to be spent on the luxuries of the rich and idle. We are all brothers,
but I take a stipend for preaching a false Christian religion, which I do not myself believe
in, and which only serve's to hinder men from understanding true Christianity. I take a stipend
as priest or bishop for deceiving men in the matter of the greatest importance to them.  We
are all brothers, but I will not give the poor the benefit of my educational, medical, or literary
labors except for money.  We are all brothers, yet I take a salary for being ready to commit
murder, for teaching men to murder, or making firearms, gunpowder, or fortifications.

The whole life of the upper classes is a constant inconsistency. The more delicate a man's
conscience is, the more painful this contradiction is to him.

A man of sensitive conscience cannot but suffer if he lives such a life.  The only means by
which he can escape from this suffering is by blunting his conscience, but even if some  men
succeed in dulling their conscience they cannot dull their fears.

The men of the higher dominating classes whose conscience is naturally not sensitive or has
become blunted, if they don't suffer through conscience, suffer from fear and hatred.  They
are bound to suffer.  They know all the hatred of them existing, and inevitably existing in
the working classes.  They are aware that the working classes know that they are deceived and
exploited, and that they are beginning to organize themselves to shake off oppression and revenge
themselves on their oppressors.  The higher classes see the unions, the strikes, the May Day
Celebrations, and feel the calamity that is threatening them, and their terror passes into
an instinct of self-defense and hatred.  They know that if for one instant they are worsted
in the struggle with their oppressed slaves, they will perish, because the slaves are exasperated
and their exasperation is growing more intense with every day of oppression.  The oppressors,
even if they wished to do so, could not make an end to oppression.  They know that they themselves
will perish directly they even relax the harshness of their oppression.  And they do not relax
it, in spite of all their pretended care for the welfare of the working classes, for the eight-hour
day, for regulation of the labor of minors and of women, for savings banks and pensions.  All
that is humbug, or else simply anxiety to keep the slave fit to do his work.  But the slave
is still a slave, and the master who cannot live without a slave is less disposed to set him
free than ever.

The attitude of the ruling classes to the laborers is that of a man who has felled his adversary
to the earth and holds him down, not so much because he wants to hold him down, as because
he knows that if he let him go, even for a second, he would himself be stabbed, for his adversary
is infuriated and has a knife in his hand.  And therefore, whether their conscience is tender
or the reverse, our rich men cannot enjoy the wealth they have filched from the poor as the
ancients did who believed in their right to it.  Their whole life and all their enjoyments
are embittered either by the stings of conscience or by terror.

So much for the economic contradiction.  The political contradiction is even more striking.

All men are brought up to the habit of obeying the laws of the state before everything.  The
whole existence of modern times is defined by laws.  A man marries and is divorced, educates
his children, and even (in many countries) professes his religious faith in accordance with
the law.  What about the law then which defines our whose existence?  Do men believe in it?
Do they regard it as good?  Not at all.  In the majority of cases people of the present time
do not believe in the justice of the law, they despise it, but still they obey it.  It was
very well for the men of the ancient world to observe their laws.  They firmly believed that
their law (it was generally of a religious character) was the only just law, which everyone
ought to obey. But is it so with us? we know and cannot help knowing that the law of our country
is not the one eternal law; that it is only one of the many laws of different countries, which
are equally imperfect, often obviously wrong and unjust, and are criticised from every point
of view in the newspapers.  The Jew might well obey his laws, since he had not the slightest
doubt that God had written them with his finger; the Roman too might well obey the laws which
he thought had been dictated by the nymph Egeria.  Men might well observe the laws if they
believed the Tzars who made them were God's anointed, or even if they thought they were the
work of assemblies of lawgivers who had the power and the desire to make them as good as possible.
But we all know how our laws are made.  We have all been behind the scenes, we know that they
are the product of covetousness, trickery, and party struggles; that there is not and cannot
be any real justice in them.  And so modern men cannot believe that obedience to civic or political
laws can satisfy the demands of the reason or of human nature. Men have long ago recognized
that it is irrational to obey a law the justice of which is very doubtful, and so they cannot
but suffer in obeying a law which they do not accept as judicious and binding.

A man cannot but suffer when his whole life is defined beforehand for him by laws, which he
must obey under threat of punishment, though he does not believe in their wisdom or justice,
and often clearly perceives their injustice, cruelty, and artificiality.

We recognize the uselessness of customs and import duties, and are obliged to pay them.  We
recognize the uselessness of the expenditure on the maintenance of the Court and other members
of Government, and we regard the teaching of the Church as injurious, but we are obliged to
bear our share of the expenses of these institutions.  We regard the punishments inflicted
by law as cruel and shameless, but we must assist in supporting them.  We regard as unjust
and pernicious the distribution of landed property, but we are obliged to submit to it.  We
see no necessity for wars and armies, but we must bear terribly heavy burdens in support of
troops and war expenses.

But this contradiction is nothing in comparison with the contradiction which confronts us when
we turn to international questions, and which demands a solution, under pain of the loss of
the sanity and even the existence of the human race.  That is the contradiction between the
Christian conscience and war.

We are all Christian nations living the same spiritual life, so that every noble and pregnant
thought, springing up at one end of the world, is at once communicated to the whole of Christian
humanity and evokes everywhere the same emotion at pride and rejoicing without distinction
of nationalities.  We who love thinkers, philanthropists, poets, and scientific men of foreign
origin, and are as proud of the exploits of Father Damien as if he were one of ourselves, we,
who have a simple love for men of foreign nationalities, Frenchmen, Germans, Americans, and
Englishmen, who respect their qualities, are glad to meet them and make them so warmly welcome,
cannot regard war with them as anything heroic.  We cannot even imagine without horror the
possibility of a disagreement between these people and ourselves which would call for reciprocal
murder.  Yet we are all bound to take a hand in this slaughter which is bound to come to pass
to- morrow not to-day.

It was very well for the Jew, the Greek, and the Roman to defend the independence of his nation
by murder.  For he piously believed that his people was the only true, fine, and good people
dear to God, and all the rest were Philistines, barbarians.  Men of medieval times--even up
to the end of the last and beginning of this century--might continue to hold this belief. 
But however much we work upon ourselves we cannot believe it.  And this contradiction for men
of the present day has become so full of horror that without its solution life is no longer
possible.

"We live in a time which is full of inconsistencies," writes Count Komarovsky, the professor
of international law, in his learned treatise.

   "The press of ail countries is continually expressing the
   universal desire for peace, and the general sense of its
   necessity for all nations.

   "Representatives of governments, private persons, and official
   organs say the same thing; it is repeated in parliamentary
   debates, diplomatic correspondence, and even in state treaties.
   At the same time governments are increasing the strength of
   their armies every year, levying fresh taxes, raising loans,
   and leaving as a bequest to future generations the duty of
   repairing the blunders of the senseless policy of the present.
   What a striking contrast between words and deeds!  Of course
   governments will plead in justification of these measures that
   all their expenditure and armament are exclusively for purposes
   of defense.  But it remains a mystery to every disinterested
   man whence they can expect attacks if all the great powers are
   single-hearted in their policy, in pursuing nothing but self
   defense.  In reality it looks as if each of the great powers
   were every instant anticipating an attack on the part of the
   others.  And this results in a general feeling of insecurity
   and superhuman efforts on the part of each government to
   increase their forces beyond those of the other powers.  Such a
   competition of itself increases the danger of war.  Nations
   cannot endure the constant increase of armies for long, and
   sooner or later they will prefer war to all the disadvantages
   of their present position and the constant menace of war.  Then
   the most trifling pretext will be sufficient to throw the whole
   of Europe into the fire of universal war.  And it is a mistaken
   idea that such a crisis might deliver us from the political and
   economical troubles that are crushing us.  The experience of
   the wars of latter years teaches us that every war has only
   intensified national hatreds, made military burdens more
   crushing and insupportable, and rendered the political and
   economical grievous and insoluble."

"Modern Europe keeps under arms an active army of nine millions of men," writes Enrico Ferri,

   "besides fifteen millions of reserve, with an outlay of four
   hundred millions of francs per annum.  By continual increase of
   the armed force, the sources of social and individual
   prosperity are paralyzed, and the state of the modern world may
   be compared to that of a man who condemns himself to wasting
   from lack of nutrition in order to provide himself with arms,
   losing thereby the strength to use the arms he provides, under,
   the weight of which he will at last succumb."

Charles Booth, in his paper read in London before the Association for the Reform and Codification
of the Law of Nations, June 26, 1887, says the same thing.  After referring to the same number,
nine millions of the active army and fifteen millions of reserve, and the enormous expenditure
of governments on the support and arming of these forces, he says:

   "These figures represent only a small part of the real cost,
   because besides the recognized expenditure of the war budget of
   the various nations, we ought also to take into account the
   enormous loss to society involved in withdrawing from it such
   an immense number of its most vigorous men, who are taken from
   industrial pursuits and every kind of labor, as well as the
   enormous interest on the sums expended on military preparations
   without any return.  The inevitable result of this expenditure
   on war and preparations for war is a continually growing
   national debt.  The greater number of loans raised by the
   governments of Europe were with a view to war.  Their total sum
   amounts to four hundred millions sterling, and these debts are
   increasing every year."

The same Professor Komarovsky says in another place:

   "We live in troubled times.  Everywhere we hear complaints of
   the depression of trade and manufactures, and the wretchedness
   of the economic position generally, the miserable conditions of
   existence of the working classes, and the universal
   impoverishment of the masses. But in spite of this, governments
   in their efforts to maintain their independence rush to the
   greatest extremes of senselessness. New taxes and duties are
   being devised everywhere, and the financial oppression of the
   nations knows no limits.  If we glance at the budgets of the
   states of Europe for the last hundred years, what strikes us
   most of all is their rapid and continually growing increase.

   "How can we explain this extraordinary phenomenon which sooner
   or later threatens us all with inevitable bankruptcy?

   "It is caused beyond dispute by the expenditure for the
   maintenance of armaments which swallows up a third and even a
   half of all the expenditure of European states.  And the most
   melancholy thing is that one can foresee no limit to this
   augmentation of the budget and impoverishment of the masses.
   What is socialism but a protest against this abnormal position
   in which the greater proportion of the population of our world
   is placed?

"We are ruining ourselves," says Frederick Passy in a letter read before the last Congress
of Universal Peace (in 1890) in London,

   "we are ruining ourselves in order to be able to take part in
   the senseless wars of the future or to pay the interest on
   debts we have incurred by the senseless and criminal wars of
   the past.  We are dying of hunger so as to secure the means of
   killing each other."

Speaking later on of the way the subject is looked at in France, he says:

   "We believe that, a hundred years after the Declaration of the
   Rights of Man and of the citizen, the time has come to
   recognize the rights of nations and to renounce at once and
   forever all those undertakings based on fraud and force, which,
   under the name of conquests, are veritable crimes against
   humanity, and which, whatever the vanity of monarchs and the
   pride of nations may think of them, only weaken even those who
   are triumphant over them."

"I am surprised at the way religion is carried on in this country," said Sir Wilfrid Lawson
at the same congress.

   "You send a boy to Sunday school, and you tell him: 'Dear boy,
   you must love your enemies.  If another boy strikes you, you
   mustn't hit him back, but try to reform him by loving him.'
   Well.  The boy stays in the Sunday school till he is fourteen
   or fifteen, and then his friends send him into the army.  What
   has he to do in the army?  He certainly won't love his enemy;
   quite the contrary, if he can only get at him, he will run him
   through with his bayonet.  That is the nature of all religious
   teaching in this country.  I do not think that that is a very
   good way of carrying out the precepts of religion.  I think if
   it is a good thing for a boy to love his enemy, it is good for
   a grown-up man."

"There are in Europe twenty-eight millions of men under arms," says Wilson,

   "to decide disputes, not by discussion, but by murdering one
   another.  That is the accepted method for deciding disputes
   among Christian nations.  This method is, at the same time,
   very expensive, for, according to the statistics I have read,
   the nations of Europe spent in the year 1872 a hundred and
   fifty millions sterling on preparations for deciding disputes
   by means of murder.  It seems to me, therefore, that in such a
   state of things one of two alternatives must be admitted:
   either Christianity is a failure, or those who have undertaken
   to expound it have failed in doing so.  Until our warriors are
   disarmed and our armies disbanded, the have not the right to
   call ourselves a Christian nation."

In a conference on the subject of the duty of Christian ministers to preach against war, G.
D. Bartlett said among other things:

   "If I understand the Scriptures, I say that men are only
   playing with Christianity so long as they ignore the question
   of war.  I have lived a longish life and have heard our
   ministers preach on universal peace hardly half a dozen times.
   Twenty years ago, in a drawing room, I dared in the presence of
   forty persons to moot the proposition that war was incompatible
   with Christianity; I was regarded as an arrant fanatic.  The
   idea that we could get on without war was regarded as
   unmitigated weakness and folly."

The Catholic priest Defourney has expressed himself in the same spirit.  "One of the first
precepts of the eternal law inscribed in the consciences of all men," says the Abby Defourney,

   "is the prohibition of taking the life or shedding the blood of
   a fellow-creature without sufficient cause, without being
   forced into the necessity of it.  This is one of the
   commandments which is most deeply stamped in the heart of man.
   But so soon as it is a question of war, that is, of shedding
   blood in torrents, men of the present day do not trouble
   themselves about a sufficient cause.  Those who take part in
   wars do not even think of asking themselves whether there is
   any justification for these innumerable murders, whether they
   are justifiable or unjustifiable, lawful or unlawful, innocent
   or criminal; whether they are breaking that fundamental
   commandment that forbids killing without lawful cause.
   But their conscience is mute.  War has ceased to be something
   dependent on moral considerations.  In warfare men have in all
   the toil and dangers they endure no other pleasure than that of
   being conquerors, no sorrow other than that of being conquered.
   Don't tell me that they are serving their country.  A great
   genius answered that long ago in the words that have become a
   proverb: 'Without justice, what is an empire but a great band
   of brigands?'  And is not every band of brigands a little
   empire?  They too have their laws; and they too make war to
   gain booty, and even for honor.

   "The aim of the proposed institution [the institution of an
   international board of arbitration] is that the nations of
   Europe may cease to be nations of robbers, and their armies,
   bands of brigands.  And one must add, not only brigands, but
   slaves.  For our armies are simply gangs of slaves at the
   disposal of one or two commanders or ministers, who exercise a
   despotic control over them without any real responsibility, as
   we very well know.

   "The peculiarity of a slave is that he is a mere tool in the
   hands of his master, a thing, not a man.  That is just what
   soldiers, officers, and generals are, going to murder and be
   murdered at the will of a ruler or rulers.  Military slavery is
   an actual fact, and it is the worst form of slavery, especially
   now when by means of compulsory service it lays its fetters on
   the necks of all the strong and capable men of a nation, to
   make them instruments of murder, butchers of human flesh, for
   that is all they are taken and trained to do.

   "The rulers, two or three in number, meet together in cabinets,
   secretly deliberate without registers, without publicity, and
   consequently without responsibility, and send men to be
   murdered."

"Protests against armaments, burdensome to the people, have not originated in our times," says
Signor E. G. Moneta.

   "Hear what Montesquieu wrote in his day.  'France [and one
   might say, Europe] will be ruined by soldiers.  A new plague is
   spreading throughout Europe.  It attacks sovereigns and forces
   them to maintain an incredible number of armed men.  This
   plague is infectious and spreads, because directly one
   government increases its armament, all the others do likewise.
   So that nothing is gained by it but general ruin.

   "'Every government maintains as great an army as it possibly
   could maintain if its people were threatened with
   extermination, and people call peace this state of tension of
   all against all.  And therefore Europe is so ruined that if
   private persons were in the position of the governments of our
   continent, the richest of them would not have enough to live
   on.  We are poor though we have the wealth and trade of the
   whole world.'

   "That was written almost 150 years ago. The picture seems drawn
   from the world of to-day. One thing only has changed-the form
   of government.  In Montesquieu's time it was said that the
   cause of the maintenance of great armaments was the despotic
   power of kings, who made war in the hope of augmenting by
   conquest their personal revenues and gaining glory.  People
   used to say then: 'Ah, if only people could elect those who
   would have the right to refuse governments the soldiers and the
   money--then there would be an end to military politics.'  Now
   there are representative governments in almost the whole of
   Europe, and in spite of that, war expenditures and the
   preparations for war have increased to alarming proportions.

   "It is evident that the insanity of sovereigns has gained
   possession of the ruling classes.  War is not made now because
   one king has been wanting in civility to the mistress of
   another king, as it was in Louis XIV.'s time.  But the natural
   and honorable sentiments of national honor and patriotism are
   so exaggerated, and the public opinion of one nation so excited
   against another, that it is enough for a statement to be made
   (even though it may be a false report) that the ambassador of
   one state was not received by the principal personage of
   another state to cause the outbreak of the most awful and
   destructive war there has ever been seen.  Europe keeps more
   soldiers under arms to-day than in the time of the great
   Napoleonic wars.  All citizens with few exceptions are forced
   to spend some years in barracks.  Fortresses, arsenals, and
   ships are built, new weapons are constantly being invented, to
   be replaced in a short time by fresh ones, for, sad to say,
   science, which ought always to be aiming at the good of
   humanity, assists in the work of destruction, and is constantly
   inventing new means for killing the greatest number of men in
   the shortest time.  And to maintain so great a multitude of
   soldiers and to make such vast preparations for murder,
   hundreds of millions are spent annually, sums which would be
   sufficient for the education of the people and for immense
   works of public utility, and which would make it possible to
   find a peaceful solution of the social question.

   "Europe, then, is, in this respect, in spite of all the
   conquests of science, in the same position as in the darkest
   and most barbarous days of the Middle Ages.  All deplore this
   state of things--neither peace nor war--and all would be glad
   to escape from it.  The heads of governments all declare that
   they all wish for peace, and vie with one another in the most
   solemn protestations of peaceful intentions.  But the same day
   or the next they will lay a scheme for the increase of the
   armament before their legislative assembly, saying that these
   are the preventive measures they take for the very purpose of
   securing peace.

   "But this is not the kind of peace we want.  And the nations
   are not deceived by it.  True peace is based on mutual
   confidence, while these huge armaments show open and utter lack
   of confidence, if not concealed hostility, between states.
   What should we say of a man who, wanting to show his friendly
   feelings for his neighbor, should invite him to discuss their
   differences with a loaded revolver in his hand?

   "It is just this flagrant contradiction between the peaceful
   professions and the warlike policy of governments which all
   good citizens desire to put an end to, at any cost."

People are astonished that every year there are sixty thousand cases of suicide in Europe,
and those only the recognized and recorded cases--and excluding Russia and Turkey; but one
ought rather to be surprised that there are so few.  Every man of the present day, if we go
deep enough into the contradiction between his conscience and his life, is in a state of despair.

Not to speak of all the other contradictions between modern life and the conscience, the permanently
armed condition of Europe together with its profession of Christianity is alone enough to drive
any man to despair, to doubt of the sanity of mankind, and to terminate an existence in this
senseless and brutal world. This contradiction, which is a quintessence of all the other contradictions,
is so terrible that to live and to take part in it is only possible if one does not think of
it--if one is able to forget it.

What! all of us, Christians, not only profess to love one another, but do actually live one
common life; we whose social existence beats with one common pulse--we aid one another, learn
from one another, draw ever closer to one another to our mutual happiness, and find in this
closeness the whole meaning of life!--and to- morrow some crazy ruler will say some stupidity,
and another will answer in the same spirit, and then I must go expose myself to being murdered,
and murder men--who have done me no harm--and more than that, whom I love.  And this is not
a remote contingency, but the very thing we are all preparing for, which is not only probable,
but an inevitable certainty.

To recognize this clearly is enough to drive a man out of his senses or to make him shoot himself.
And this is just what does happen, and especially often among military men.  A man need only
come to himself for an instant to be impelled inevitably to such an end.

And this is the only explanation of the dreadful intensity with which men of modern times strive
to stupefy themselves, with spirits, tobacco, opium, cards, reading newspapers, traveling,
and all kinds of spectacles and amusements.  These pursuits are followed up as an important,
serious business.  And indeed they are a serious business.  If there were no external means
of dulling their sensibilities, half of mankind would shoot themselves without delay, for to
live in opposition to one's reason is the most intolerable condition.  And that is the condition
of all men of the present day.  All men of the modern world exist in a state of continual and
flagrant antagonism between their conscience and their way of life.  This antagonism is apparent
in economic as well as political life.  But most striking of all is the contradiction between
the Christian law of the brotherhood of men existing in the conscience and the necessity under
which all men are placed by compulsory military service of being prepared for hatred and murder--of
being at the same time a Christian and a gladiator.

CHAPTER VI.

ATTITUDE OF MEN OF THE PRESENT DAY TO WAR.

People do not Try to Remove the Contradiction between Life and Conscience by a Change of Life,
but their Cultivated Leaders Exert Every Effort to Obscure the Demands of Conscience, and justify
their Life; in this Way they Degrade Society below Paganism to a State of Primeval Barbarism--Undefined
Attitude of Modern Leaders of Thought to War, to Universal Militarism, and to Compulsory Service
in Army--One Section Regards War as an Accidental Political Phenomenon, to be Avoided by External
Measures only-- Peace Congress--The Article in the REVUE DES REVUES--Proposition of Maxime
du Camp--Value of Boards of Arbitration and Suppression of Armies--Attitude of Governments
to Men of this Opinion and What they Do--Another Section Regards War as Cruel, but Inevitable--
Maupassant--Rod--A Third Section Regard War as Necessary, and not without its Advantages--Doucet-Claretie-Zola-Vogue.

The antagonism between life and the conscience may be removed in two ways: by a change of life
or by a change of conscience.  And there would seem there can be no doubt as to these alternatives.

A man may cease to do what he regards as wrong, but he cannot cease to consider wrong what
is wrong.  Just in the same way all humanity may cease to do what it regards as wrong, but
far from being able to change, it cannot even retard for a time the continual growth of a clearer
recognition of what is wrong and therefore ought not to be.  And therefore it would seem inevitable
for Christian men to abandon the pagan forms of society which they condemn, and to reconstruct
their social existence on the Christian principles they profess.

So it would be were it not for the law of inertia, as immutable a force in men and nations
as in inanimate bodies.  In men it takes the form of the psychological principle, so truly
expressed in the words of the Gospel, "They have loved darkness better than light because their
deeds were evil."  This principle shows itself in men not trying to recognize the truth, but
to persuade themselves that the life they are leading, which is what they like and are used
to, is a life perfectly consistent with truth.

Slavery was opposed to all the moral principles advocated by Plato and Aristotle, yet neither
of them saw that, because to renounce slavery would have meant the break up of the life they
were living.  We see the same thing in our modern world.

The division of men into two castes, as well as the use of force in government and war, are
opposed to every moral principle professed by our modern society.  Yet the cultivated and advanced
men of the day seem not to see it.

The majority, if not all, of the cultivated men of our day try unconsciously to maintain the
old social conception of life, which justifies their position, and to hide from themselves
and others its insufficiency, and above all the necessity of adopting the Christian conception
of life, which will mean the break up of the whole existing social order.  They struggle to
keep up the organization based on the social conception of life, but do not believe in it themselves,
because it is extinct and it is impossible to believe in it.

All modern literature--philosophical, political, and artistic--is striking in this respect.
What wealth of idea, of form, of color, what erudition, what art, but what a lack of serious
matter, what dread of any exactitude of thought or expression!  Subtleties, allegories, humorous
fancies, the widest generalizations, but nothing simple and clear, nothing going straight to
the point, that is, to the problem of life.

But that is not all; besides these graceful frivolities, our literature is full of simple nastiness
and brutality, of arguments which would lead men back in the most refined way to primeval barbarism,
to the principles not only of the pagan, but even of the animal life, which we have left behind
us five thousand years ago.

And it could not be otherwise.  In their dread of the Christian conception of life which will
destroy the social order, which some cling to only from habit, others also from interest, men
cannot but be thrown back upon the pagan conception of life and the principles based on it.
Nowadays we see advocated not only patriotism and aristocratic principles just as they were
advocated two thousand years ago, but even the coarsest epicureanism and animalism, only with
this difference, that the men who then professed those views believed in them, while nowadays
even the advocates of such views do not believe in them, for they have no meaning for the present
day.  No one can stand still when the earth is shaking under his feet. If we do not go forward
we must go back.  And strange and terrible to say, the cultivated men of our day, the leaders
of thought, are in reality with their subtle reasoning drawing society back, not to paganism
even, but to a state of primitive barbarism.

This tendency on the part of the leading thinkers of the day is nowhere more apparent than
in their attitude to the phenomenon in which all the insufficiency of the social conception
of life is presented in the most concentrated form--in their attitude, that is, to war, to
the general arming of nations, and to universal compulsory service.

The undefined, if not disingenuous, attitude of modern thinkers to this phenomenon is striking.
It takes three forms in cultivated society.  One section look at it as an incidental phenomenon,
arising out of the special political situation of Europe, and consider that this state of things
can be reformed without a revolution in the whole internal social order of nations, by external
measures of international diplomacy.  Another section regard it as something cruel and hideous,
but at the same time fated and inevitable, like disease and death.  A third party with cool
indifference consider war as an inevitable phenomenon, beneficial in its effects and therefore
desirable.

Men look at the subject from different points of view, but all alike talk of war as though
it were something absolutely independent of the will of those who take part in it.  And consequently
they do not even admit the natural question which presents itself to every simple man: "How
about me--ought I to take any part in it?"  In their view no question of this kind even exists,
and every man, however he may regard war from a personal standpoint, must slavishly submit
to the requirements of the authorities on the subject.

The attitude of the first section of thinkers, those who see a way out of war in international
diplomatic measures, is well expressed in the report of the last Peace Congress in London,
and the articles and letters upon war that appeared in No. 8 of the REVUE DES REVUES, 1891.
The congress after gathering together from various quarters the verbal and written opinion
of learned men opened the proceedings by a religious service, and after listening to addresses
for five whole days, concluded them by a public dinner and speeches.  They adopted the following
resolutions:

   "1. The congress affirms its belief that the brotherhood of man
   involves as a necessary consequence a brotherhood of nations.

   "2. The congress recognizes the important influence that
   Christianity exercises on the moral and political progress of
   mankind, and earnestly urges upon ministers of the Gospel and
   other religious teachers the duty of setting forth the
   principles of peace and good will toward men. AND IT RECOMMENDS
   THAT THE THIRD SUNDAY IN DECEMBER BE SET APART FOR THA
   PURPOSE.

   "3. The congress expresses the opinion that all teachers of
   history should call the attention of the young to the grave
   evils inflicted on mankind in all ages by war, and to the fact
   that such war has been waged for most inadequate causes.

   "4. The congress protests against the use of military drill in
   schools by way of physical exercise, and suggests the formation
   of brigades for saving life rather than of a quasi-military
   character; and urges the desirability of impressing on the
   Board of Examiners who formulate the questions for examination
   the propriety of guiding the minds of children in the
   principles of peace.

   "5. The congress holds that the doctrine of the Rights of Man
   requires that the aboriginal and weaker races, their
   territories and liberties, shall be guarded from injustice and
   fraud, and that these races shall be shielded against the vices
   so prevalent among the so-called advanced races of men.  It
   further expresses its conviction that there should be concert
   of action among the nations for the accomplishment of these
   ends.  The congress expresses its hearty appreciation of the
   resolutions of the Anti-slavery Conference held recently at
   Brussels for the amelioration of the condition of the peoples
   of Africa.

   "6. The congress believes that the warlike prejudices and
   traditions which are still fostered in the various
   nationalities, and the misrepresentations by leaders of public
   opinion in legislative assemblies or through the press, are
   often indirect causes of war, and that these evils should be
   counteracted by the publication of accurate information tending
   to the removal of misunderstanding between nations, and
   recommends the importance of considering the question of
   commencing an international newspaper with such a purpose.

   "7. The congress proposes to the Inter-parliamentary Conference
   that the utmost support should be given to every project for
   unification of weights and measures, coinage, tariff, postage,
   and telegraphic arrangements, etc., which would assist in
   constituting a commercial, industrial, and scientific union of
   the peoples.

   "8. The congress, in view of the vast social and moral
   influence of woman, urges upon every woman to sustain the
   things that make for peace, as otherwise she incurs grave
   responsibility for the continuance of the systems of
   militarism.

   "9. The congress expresses the hope that the Financial Reform
   Association and other similar societies in Europe and America
   should unite in considering means for establishing equitable
   commercial relations between states, by the reduction of import
   duties.  The congress feels that it can affirm that the whole
   of Europe desires peace, and awaits with impatience the
   suppression of armaments, which, under the plea of defense,
   become in their turn a danger by keeping alive mutual distrust,
   and are, at the same time, the cause of that general economic
   disturbance which stands in the way of settling in a
   satisfactory manner the problems of labor and poverty, which
   ought to take precedence of all others.

   "10. The congress, recognizing that a general disarmament would
   be the best guarantee of peace and would lead to the solution
   of the questions which now most divide states, expresses the
   wish that a congress of representatives of all the states of
   Europe may be assembled as soon as possible to consider the
   means of effecting a gradual general disarmament.

   "11. The congress, in consideration of the fact that the
   timidity of a single power might delay the convocation of the
   above-mentioned congress, is of opinion that the government
   which should first dismiss any considerable number of soldiers
   would confer a signal benefit on Europe and mankind, because it
   would, by public opinion, oblige other governments to follow
   its example, and by the moral force of this accomplished fact
   would have increased rather than diminished the conditions of
   its national defense.

   "12. The congress, considering the question of disarmament, as
   of peace in general, depends on public opinion, recommends the
   peace societies, as well as all friends of peace, to be active
   in its propaganda, especially at the time of parliamentary
   elections, in order that the electors should give their votes
   to candidates who are pledged to support Peace, Disarmament,
   and Arbitration.

   "13. The congress congratulates the friends of peace on the
   resolution adopted by the International American Conference,
   held at Washington in April last, by which it was recommended
   that arbitration should be obligatory in all controversies,
   whatever their origin, except only those which may imperil the
   independence of one of the nations involved.

   "14. The congress recommends this resolution to the attention
   of European statesmen, and expresses the ardent desire that
   similar treaties may speedily be entered into between the other
   nations of the world.

   "15. The congress expresses its satisfaction at the adoption by
   the Spanish Senate on June 16 last of a project of law
   authorizing the government to negotiate general or special
   treaties of arbitration for the settlement of all disputes
   except those relating to the independence or internal
   government of the states affected; also at the adoption of
   resolutions to a like effect by the Norwegian Storthing and by
   the Italian Chamber.

   "16. The congress resolves that a committee be appointed to
   address communications to the principal political, religious,
   commercial, and labor and peace organizations, requesting them
   to send petitions to the governmental authorities praying that
   measures be taken for the formation of suitable tribunals for
   the adjudicature of international questions so as to avoid the
   resort to war.

   "17. Seeing (1) that the object pursued by all peace societies
   is the establishment of judicial order between nations, and (2)
   that neutralization by international treaties constitutes a
   step toward this judicial state and lessens the number of
   districts in which war can be carried on, the congress
   recommends a larger extension of the rule of neutralization,
   and expresses the wish, (1) that all treaties which at present
   assure to certain states the benefit of neutrality remain in
   force, or if necessary be amended in a manner to render the
   neutrality more effective, either by extending neutralization
   to the whole of the state or by ordering the demolition of
   fortresses, which constitute rather a peril than a guarantee
   for neutrality; (2) that new treaties in harmony with the
   wishes of the populations concerned be concluded for
   establishing the neutralization of other states.

   "18. The sub-committee proposes, (1) that the annual Peace
   Congress should be held either immediately before the meeting
   of the annual Sub-parliamentary Conference, or immediately
   after it in the same town; (2) that the question of an
   international peace emblem be postponed SINE DIE; (3) that the
   following resolutions be adopted:

      "a. To express satisfaction at the official overtures of the
      Presbyterian Church in the United States addressed to the
      highest representatives of each church organization in
      Christendom to unite in a general conference to promote the
      substitution of international arbitration for war.

      "b. To express in the name of the congress its profound
      reverence for the memory of Aurelio Saffi, the great Italian
      jurist, a member of the committee of the International
      League of Peace and Liberty.

   "(4) That the memorial adopted by this congress and
   signed by the president to the heads of the civilized states
    should, as far as practicable, be presented to each power by
    influential deputations.

   "(5) That the following resolutions be adopted:

      "a. A resolution of thanks to the presidents of the various
      sittings of the congress.

      "b. A resolution of thanks to the chairman, the secretaries,
      and the members of the bureau of the congress.

      "c. A resolution of thanks to the conveners and members of
      the sectional committees.

      "d. A resolution of thanks to Rev. Canon Scott Holland, Rev.
      Dr. Reuen Thomas, and Rev. J. Morgan Gibbon for their pulpit
      addresses before the congress, and also to the authorities
      of St. Paul's Cathedral, the City Temple, and Stamford Hill
      Congregational Church for the use of those buildings for
      public services.

      "e. A letter of thanks to her Majesty for permission to
      visit Windror Castle.

      "f. And also a resolution of thanks to the Lord Mayor and
      Lady Mayoress, to Mr. Passmore Edwards, and other friends
      who have extended their hospitality to the members of the
      congress.

   "19. The congress places on record a heartfelt expression of
   gratitude to Almighty God for the remarkable harmony and
   concord which have characterized the meetings of the assembly,
   in which so many men and women of varied nations, creeds,
   tongues, and races have gathered in closest co-operation, and
   for the conclusion of the labors of the congress; and expresses
   its firm and unshaken belief in the ultimate triumph of the
   cause of peace and of the principles advocated at these
   meetings."

The fundamental idea of the congress is the necessity (1) of diffusing among all people by
all means the conviction of the disadvantages of war and the great blessing of peace, and (2)
of rousing governments to the sense of the superiority of international arbitration over war
and of the consequent advisability and necessity of disarmament.  To attain the first aim the
congress has recourse to teachers of history, to women, and to the clergy, with the advice
to the latter to preach on the evil of war and the blessing of peace every third Sunday in
December.  To attain the second object the congress appeals to governments with the suggestion
that they should disband their armies and replace war by arbitration.

To preach to men of the evil of war and the blessing of peace! But the blessing of peace is
so well known to men that, ever since there have been men at all, their best wish has been
expressed in the greeting, "Peace be with you."  So why preach about it?

Not only Christians, but pagans, thousands of years ago, all recognized the evil of war and
the blessing of peace.  So that the recommendation to ministers of the Gospel to preach on
the evil of war and the blessing of peace every third Sunday in December is quite superfluous.

The Christian cannot but preach on that subject every day of his life.  If Christians and preachers
of Christianity do not do so, there must be reasons for it.  And until these have been removed
no recommendations will be effective.  Still less effective will be the recommendations to
governments to disband their armies and replace them by international boards of arbitration.
Governments, too, know very well the difficulty and the burdensomeness of raising and maintaining
forces, and if in spite of that knowledge they do, at the cost of terrible strain and effort,
raise and maintain forces, it is evident that they cannot do otherwise, and the recommendation
of the congress can never change it.  But the learned gentlemen are unwilling to see that,
and keep hoping to find a political combination, through which governments shall be induced
to limit their powers themselves.

"Can we get rid of war"? asks a learned writer in the REVUE DES REVUES.

   "All are agreed that if it were to break out in Europe, its
    consequences would be like those of the great inroads of
    barbarians.  The existence of whole nationalities would be at
   stake, and therefore the war would be desperate, bloody,
   atrocious.

   "This consideration, together with the terrible engines of
   destruction invented by modern science, retards the moment of
   declaring war, and maintains the present temporary situation,
   which might continue for an indefinite period, except for the
   fearful cost of maintaining armaments which are exhausting the
   European states and threatening to reduce nations to a state of
   misery hardly less than that of war itself.

   "Struck by this reflection, men of various countries have tried
   to find means for preventing, or at least for softening, the
   results of the terrible slaughter with which we are threatened.

   "Such are the questions brought forward by the Peace Congress
   shortly to be held in Rome, and the publication of a pamphlet,
   Sur le Desarmement.'

   "It is unhappily beyond doubt that with the present
   organization of the majority of European states, isolated from
   one another and guided by distinct interests, the absolute
   suppression of war is an illusion with which it would be
   dangerous to cheat ourselves.  Wiser rules and regulations
   imposed on these duels between nations might, however, at least
   limit its horrors.

   "It is equally chimerical to reckon on projects of disarmament,
   the execution of which is rendered almost impossible by
   considerations of a popular character present to the mind of
   all our readers. [This probably means that France cannot
   disband its army before taking its revenge.]  Public opinion is
   not prepared to accept them, and moreover, the international
   relations between different peoples are not such as to make
   their acceptance possible.  Disarmament imposed on one nation
   by another in circumstances threatening its security would be
   equivalent to a declaration of war.

   "However, one may admit that an exchange of ideas between the
   nations interested could aid, to a certain degree, in bringing
   about the good understanding indispensable to any negotiations,
   and would render possible a considerable reduction of the
   military expenditure which is crushing the nations of Europe
   and greatly hindering the solution of the social question,
   which each individually must solve on pain of having internal
   war as the price for escaping it externally.

   "We might at least demand the reduction of the enormous
   expenses of war organized as it is at present with a view to
   the power of invasion within twenty-four hours and a decisive
   battle within a week of the declaration of war.

   "We ought to manage so that states could not make the attack
   suddenly and invade each other's territories within twenty-four
   hours."

This practical notion has been put forth by Maxime du Camp, and his article concludes with it.

The propositions of M. du Camp are as follows:

   1. A diplomatic congress to be held every year.

   2. No war to be declared till two months after the incident
   which provoked it.  (The difficulty here would be to decide
   precisely what incident did provoke the war, since whenever war
   is declared there are very many such incidents, and one would
   have to decide from which to reckon the two months' interval.)

   3. No war to be declared before it has been submitted to a
   plebiscitum of the nations preparing to take part in it.

   4. No hostilities to be commenced till a month after the
   official declaration of war.

"No war to be declared.  No hostilities to be commenced," etc. But who is to arrange that no
war is to be declared?  Who is to compel people to do this and that?  Who is to force states
to delay their operations for a certain fixed time?  All the other states.  But all these others
are also states which want holding in check and keeping within limits, and forcing, too.  Who
is to force them, and how?  Public opinion.  But if there is a public opinion which can force
governments to delay their operations for a fixed period, the same public opinion can force
governments not to declare war at all.

But, it will be replied, there may be such a balance of power, such a PONDERATION DE FORCES,
as would lead states to hold back of their own accord.  Well, that has been tried and is being
tried even now.  The Holy Alliance was nothing but that, the League of Peace was another attempt
at the same thing, and so on.

But, it will be answered, suppose all were agreed.  If all were agreed there would be no more
war certainly, and no need for arbitration either.

"A court of arbitration!  Arbitration shall replace war. Questions shall be decided by a court
of arbitration. The Alabama question was decided by a court of arbitration, and the question
of the Caroline Islands was submitted to the decision of the Pope. Switzerland, Belgium, Denmark,
and Holland have all declared that they prefer arbitration to war."

I dare say Monaco has expressed the same preference.  The only unfortunate thing is that Germany,
Russia, Austria, and France have not so far shown the same inclination.  It is amazing how
men can deceive themselves when they find it necessary!  Governments consent to decide their
disagreements by arbitration and to disband their armies!  The differences between Russia and
Poland, between England and Ireland, between Austria and Bohemia, between Turkey and the Slavonic
states, between France and Germany, to be soothed away by amiable conciliation!

One might as well suggest to merchants and bankers that they should sell nothing for a greater
price than they gave for it, should undertake the distribution of wealth for no profit, and
should abolish money, as it would thus be rendered unnecessary.

But since commercial and banking operations consist in nothing but selling for more than the
cost price, this would be equivalent to an invitation to suppress themselves.  It is the same
in regard to governments.  To suggest to governments that they should not have recourse to
violence, but should decide their misunderstandings in accordance with equity, is inviting
them to abolish themselves as rulers, and that no government can ever consent to do.

The learned men form societies (there are more than a hundred such societies), assemble in
congresses (such as those recently held in London and Paris, and shortly to be held in Rome),
deliver addresses, eat public dinners and make speeches, publish journals, and prove by every
means possible that the nations forced to support millions of troops are strained to the furthest
limits of their endurance, that the maintenance of these huge armed forces is in opposition
to all the aims, the interests, and the wishes of the people, and that it is possible, moreover,
by writing numerous papers, and uttering a great many words, to bring all men into agreement
and to arrange so that they shall have no antagonistic interests, and then there will be no
more war.

When I was a little boy they told me if I wanted to catch a bird I must put salt on its tail.
I ran after the birds with the salt in my hand, but I soon convinced myself that if I could
put salt on a bird's tail, I could catch it, and realized that I had been hoaxed.

People ought to realize the same fact when they read books and articles on arbitration and
disarmament.

If one could put salt on a bird's tail, it would be because it could not fly and there would
be no difficulty in catching it.  If the bird had wings and did not want to be caught, it would
not let one put salt on its tail, because the specialty of a bird is to fly.  In precisely
the same way the specialty of government is not to obey, but to enforce obedience.  And a government
is only a government so long as it can make itself obeyed, and therefore it always strives
for that and will never willingly abandon its power.  But since it is on the army that the
power of government rests, it will never give up the army, and the use of the army in war.

The error arises from the learned jurists deceiving themselves and others, by asserting that
government is not what it really is, one set of men banded together to oppress another set
of men, but, as shown by science, is the representation of the citizens in their collective
capacity.  They have so long been persuading other people of this that at last they have persuaded
themselves of it; and thus they often seriously suppose that government can be bound by considerations
of justice.  But history shows that from Caesar to Napoleon, and from Napoleon to Bismarck,
government is in its essence always a force acting in violation of justice, and that it cannot
be otherwise.  Justice can have no binding force on a ruler or rulers who keep men, deluded
and drilled in readiness for acts of violence--soldiers, and by means of them control others.
And so governments can never be brought to consent to diminish the number of these drilled
slaves, who constitute their whole power and importance.

Such is the attitude of certain learned men to the contradiction under which our society is
being crushed, and such are their methods of solving it.  Tell these people that the whole
matter rests on the personal attitude of each man to the moral and religious question put nowadays
to everyone, the question, that is, whether it is lawful or unlawful for him to take his share
of military service, and these learned gentlemen will shrug their shoulders and not condescend
to listen or to answer you.  The solution of the question in their idea is to be found in reading
addresses, writing books, electing presidents, vice-presidents, and secretaries, and meeting
and speaking first in one town and then in another.  From all this speechifying and writing
it will come to pass, according to their notions, that governments will cease to levy the soldiers,
on whom their whole strength depends, will listen to their discourses, and will disband their
forces, leaving themselves without any defense, not only against their neighbors, but also
against their own subjects.  As though a band of brigands, who have some unarmed travelers
bound and ready to be plundered, should be so touched by their complaints of the pain caused
by the cords they are fastened with as to let them go again.

Still there are people who believe in this, busy themselves over peace congresses, read addresses,
and write books.  And governments, we may be quite sure, express their sympathy and make a
show of encouraging them.  In the same way they pretend to support temperance societies, while
they are living principally on the drunkenness of the people; and pretend to encourage education,
when their whole strength is based on ignorance; and to support constitutional freedom, when
their strength rests on the absence of freedom; and to be anxious for the improvement of the
condition of the working classes, when their very existence depends on their oppression; and
to support Christianity, when Christianity destroys all government.

To be able to do this they have long ago elaborated methods encouraging temperance, which cannot
suppress drunkenness; methods of supporting education, which not only fail to prevent ignorance,
but even increase it; methods of aiming at freedom and constitutionalism, which are no hindrance
to despotism; methods of protecting the working classes, which will not free them from slavery;
and a Christianity, too, they have elaborated, which does not destroy, but supports governments.

Now there is something more for the government to encourage-- peace.  The sovereigns, who nowadays
take counsel with their ministers, decide by their will alone whether the butchery of millions
is to be begun this year or next.  They know very well that all these discourses upon peace
will not hinder them from sending millions of men to butchery when it seems good to them. They
listen even with satisfaction to these discourses, encourage them, and take part in them.

All this, far from being detrimental, is even of service to governments, by turning people's
attention from the most important and pressing question: Ought or ought not each man called
upon for military service to submit to serve in the army?

"Peace will soon be arranged, thanks to alliances and congresses, to books and pamphlets; meantime
go and put on your uniform, and prepare to cause suffering and to endure it for our benefit,"
is the government's line of argument.  And the learned gentlemen who get up congresses and
write articles are in perfect agreement with it.

This is the attitude of one set of thinkers.  And since it is that most beneficial to governments,
it is also the most encouraged by all intelligent governments.

Another attitude to war has something tragical in it.  There are men who maintain that the
love for peace and the inevitability of war form a hideous contradiction, and that such is
the fate of man.  These are mostly gifted and sensitive men, who see and realize all the horror
and imbecility and cruelty of war, but through some strange perversion of mind neither see
nor seek to find any way out of this position, and seem to take pleasure in teasing the wound
by dwelling on the desperate position of humanity.  A notable example of such an attitude to
war is to be found in the celebrated French writer Guy de Maupassant.  Looking from his yacht
at the drill and firing practice of the French soldiers the following reflections occur to him:

   "When I think only of this word war, a kind of terror seizes
   upon me, as though I were listening to some tale of sorcery, of
   the Inquisition, some long past, remote abomination, monstrous,
   unnatural.

   "When cannibalism is spoken of, we smile with pride,
   proclaiming our superiority to these savages.  Which are the
   savages, the real savages?  Those who fight to eat the
   conquered, or those who fight to kill, for nothing but to kill?

   "The young recruits, moving about in lines yonder, are destined
   to death like the flocks of sheep driven by the butcher along
   the road.  They will fall in some plain with a saber cut in the
   head, or a bullet through the breast.  And these are young men
   who might work, be productive and useful.  Their fathers are
   old and poor.  Their mothers, who have loved them for twenty
   years, worshiped them as none but mothers can, will learn in
   six months' time, or a year perhaps, that their son, their boy,
   the big boy reared with so much labor, so much expense, so much
   love, has been thrown in a hole like some dead dog, after being
   disemboweled by a bullet, and trampled, crushed, to a mass of
   pulp by the charges of cavalry.  Why have they killed her boy,
   her handsome boy, her one hope, her pride, her life?  She does
   not know. Ah, why?

   "War! fighting! slaughter! massacres of men!  And we have now,
   in our century, with our civilization, with the spread of
   science, and the degree of philosophy which the genius of man
   is supposed to have attained, schools for training to kill, to
   kill very far off, to perfection, great numbers at once, to
   kill poor devils of innocent men with families and without any
   kind of trial.

   "AND WHAT IS MOST BEWILDERING IS THAT THE PEOPLE DO NOT RISE
   AGAINST THEIR GOVERNMENTS.  FOR WHAT DIFFERENCE IS THERE
   BETWEEN MONARCHIES AND REPUBLICS?  THE MOST BEWILDERING THING
   IS THAT THE WHOLE OF SOCIETY IS NOT IN REVOLT AT THE WORD WAR."

   "Ah! we shall always live under the burden of the ancient and
   odious customs, the criminal prejudices, the ferocious ideas of
   our barbarous ancestors, for we are beasts, and beasts we shall
   remain, dominated by instinct and changed by nothing.  Would
   not any other man than Victor Hugo have been exiled for that
   mighty cry of deliverance and truth?  'To-day force is called
   violence, and is being brought to judgment; war has been put on
   its trial.  At the plea of the human race, civilization
   arraigns warfare, and draws up the great list of crimes laid at
   the charge of conquerors and generals.  The nations are coming
   to understand that the magnitude of a crime cannot be its
   extenuation; that if killing is a crime, killing many can be no
   extenuating circumstance; that if robbery is disgraceful,
   invasion cannot be glorious.  Ah! let us proclaim these
   absolute truths; let us dishonor war!'

"Vain wrath," continues Maupassant, "a poet's indignation.  War is held in more veneration
than ever.

   "A skilled proficient in that line, a slaughterer of genius,
   Von Moltke, in reply to the peace delegates, once uttered these
   strange words:

   "'War is holy, war is ordained of God.  It is one of the most
   sacred laws of the world.  It maintains among men all the great
   and noble sentiments--honor, devotion, virtue, and courage, and
   saves them in short from falling into the most hideous
   materialism.'

   "So, then, bringing millions of men together into herds,
   marching by day and by night without rest, thinking of nothing,
   studying nothing, learning nothing, reading nothing, being
   useful to no one, wallowing in filth, sleeping in mud, living
   like brutes in a continual state of stupefaction, sacking
   towns, burning villages, ruining whole populations, then
   meeting another mass of human flesh, falling upon them, making
   pools of blood, and plains of flesh mixed with trodden mire and
   red with heaps of corpses, having your arms or legs carried
   off, your brains blown out for no advantage to anyone, and
   dying in some corner of a field while your old parents, your
   wife and children are perishing of hunger--that is what is
   meant by not falling into the most hideous materialism!

   "Warriors are the scourge of the world.  We struggle against
   nature and ignorance and obstacles of all kinds to make our
   wretched life less hard.  Learned men--benefactors of all--
   spend their lives in working, in seeking what can aid, what be
   of use, what can alleviate the lot of their fellows.  They
   devote themselves unsparingly to their task of usefulness,
   making one discovery after another, enlarging the sphere of
   human intelligence, extending the bounds of science, adding
   each day some new store to the sum of knowledge, gaining each
   day prosperity, ease, strength for their country.

   "War breaks out.  In six months the generals have destroyed the
   work of twenty years of effort, of patience, and of genius.

   "That is what is meant by not falling into the most hideous
   materialism.

   "We have seen it, war.  "We have seen men turned to brutes,
   frenzied, killing for fun, for terror, for bravado, for
   ostentation.  Then when right is no more, law is dead, every
   notion of justice has disappeared.  We have seen men shoot
   innocent creatures found on the road, and suspected because
   they were afraid.  We have seen them kill dogs chained at their
   masters' doors to try their new revolvers, we have seen them
   fire on cows lying in a field for no reason whatever, simply
   for the sake of shooting, for a joke.

   "That is what is meant by not falling into the most hideous
   materialism.

   "Going into a country, cutting the man's throat who defends his
   house because he wears a blouse and has not a military cap on
   his head, burning the dwellings of wretched beings who have
   nothing to eat, breaking furniture and stealing goods, drinking
   the wine found in the cellars, violating the women in the
   streets, burning thousands of francs' worth of powder, and
   leaving misery and cholera in one's track--

   "That is what is meant by not falling into the most hideous
   materialism.

   "What have they done, those warriors, that proves the least
   intelligence?  Nothing.  What have they invented?  Cannons and
   muskets.  That is all.

   "What remains to us from Greece?  Books and statues.  Is Greece
   great from her conquests or her creations?

   "Was it the invasions of the Persians which saved Greece from
   falling into the most hideous materialism?

   "Were the invasions of the barbarians what saved and
   regenerated Rome?

   "Was it Napoleon I. who carried forward the great intellectual
   movement started by the philosophers of the end of last
   century?

   "Yes, indeed, since government assumes the right of
   annihilating peoples thus, there is nothing surprising in the
   fact that the peoples assume the right of annihilating
   governments.

   "They defend themselves.  They are right.  No one has an
   absolute right to govern others.  It ought only to be done for
   the benefit of those who are governed.  And it is as much the
   duty of anyone who governs to avoid war as it is the duty of a
   captain of a ship to avoid shipwreck.

   "When a captain has let his ship come to ruin, he is judged and
   condemned, if he is found guilty of negligence or even
   incapacity.

   "Why should not the government be put on its trial after every
   declaration of war?  IF THE PEOPLE UNDERSTOOD THAT, IF THEY
   THEMSELVES PASSED JUDGMENT ON MURDEROUS GOVERNMENTS, IF THEY
   REFUSED TO LET THEMSELVES BE KILLED FOR NOTHING, IF THEY WOULD
   ONLY TURN THEIR ARMS AGAINST THOSE WHO HAVE GIVEN THEM TO THEM
   FOR MASSACRE, ON THAT DAY WAR WOULD BE NO MORE.  BUT THAT DAY
   WILL NEVER COME" [Footnote: "Sur l'Eau," pp. 71-80].

The author sees all the horror of war.  He sees that it is caused by governments forcing men
by deception to go out to slaughter and be slain without any advantage to themselves.  And
he sees, too, that the men who make up the armies could turn their arms against the governments
and bring them to judgment.  But he thinks that that will never come to pass, and that there
is, therefore, no escape from the present position.

   "I think war is terrible, but that it is inevitable; that
   compulsory military service is as inevitable as death, and that
   since government will always desire it, war will always exist."

So writes this talented and sincere writer, who is endowed with that power of penetrating to
the innermost core of the subjects which is the essence of the poetic faculty.  He brings before
us all the cruelty of the inconsistency between men's moral sense and their actions, but without
trying to remove it; seems to admit that this inconsistency must exist and that it is the poetic
tragedy of life.

Another no less gifted writer, Edouard Rod, paints in still more vivid colors the cruelty and
madness of the present state of things.  He too only aims at presenting its tragic features,
without suggesting or forseeing any issue from the position.

   "What is the good of doing anything?  What is the good of
   undertaking any enterprise?  And how are we to love men in
   these troubled times when every fresh day is a menace of
   danger?...All we have begun, the plans we are developing, our
   schemes of work, the little good we may have been able to do,
   will it not all be swept away by the tempest that is in
   preparation?...Everywhere the earth is shaking under our feet
   and storm-clouds are gathering on our horizon which will have
   no pity on us.

   "Ah! if all we had to dread were the revolution which is held
   up as a specter to terrify us!  Since I cannot imagine a
   society more detestable than ours, I feel more skeptical than
   alarmed in regard to that which will replace it.  If I should
   have to suffer from the change, I should be consoled by
   thinking that the executioners of that day were the victims of
   the previous time, and the hope of something better would help
   us to endure the worst.  But it is not that remote peril which
   frightens me.  I see another danger, nearer and far more cruel;
   more cruel because there is no excuse for it, because it is
   absurd, because it can lead to no good.  Every day one balances
   the chances of war on the morrow, every day they become more
   merciless.

   "The imagination revolts before the catastrophe which is coming
   at the end of our century as the goal of the progress of our
   era, and yet we must get used to facing it.  For twenty years
   past every resource of science has been exhausted in the
   invention of engines of destruction, and soon a few charges of
   cannon will suffice to annihilate a whole army.  No longer a
   few thousands of poor devils, who were paid a price for their
   blood, are kept under arms, but whole nations are under arms to
   cut each other's throats.  They are robbed of their time now
   (by compulsory service) that they may be robbed of their lives
   later.  To prepare them for the work of massacre, their hatred
   is kindled by persuading them that they are hated.  And
   peaceable men let themselves be played on thus and go and fall
   on one another with the ferocity of wild beasts; furious troops
   of peaceful citizens taking up arms at an empty word of
   command, for some ridiculous question of frontiers or colonial
   trade interests--Heaven only knows what...They will go like
   sheep to the slaughter, knowing all the while where they are
   going, knowing that they are leaving their wives, knowing
   that their children will want for food, full of misgivings, yet
   intoxicated by the fine-sounding lies that are dinned into
   their ears.  THEY WILL MARCH WITHOUT REVOLT, PASSIVE,
   RESIGNED--THOUGH THE NUMBERS AND THE STRENGTH ARE THEIRS, AND
   THEY MIGHT, IF THEY KNEW HOW TO CO-OPERATE TOGETHER, ESTABLISH
   THE REIGN OF GOOD SENSE AND FRATERNITY, instead of the
   barbarous trickery of diplomacy.  They will march to battle so
   deluded, so duped, that they will believe slaughter to be a
   duty, and will ask the benediction of God on their lust for
   blood.  They will march to battle trampling underfoot the
   harvests they have sown, burning the towns they have built--
   with songs of triumph, festive music, and cries of jubilation.
   And their sons will raise statues to those who have done most
   in their slaughter.

   "The destiny of a whole generation depends on the hour in which
   some ill-fated politician may give the signal that will be
   followed.  We know that the best of us will be cut down and our
   work will be destroyed in embryo.  WE KNOW IT AND TREMBLE WITH
   RAGE, BUT WE CAN DO NOTHING.  We are held fast in the toils of
   officialdom and red tape, and too rude a shock would be needed
   to set us free.  We are enslaved by the laws we set up for our
   protection, which have become our oppression.  WE ARE BUT THE
   TOOLS OF THAT AUTOCRATIC ABSTRACTION THE STATE, WHICH ENSLAVES
   EACH INDIVIDUAL IN THE NAME OF THE WILL OF ALL, WHO WOULD ALL,
   TAKEN INDIVIDUALLY, DESIRE EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT THEY
   WILL BE MADE TO DO.

   "And if it were only a generation that must be sacrificed!  But
   there are graver interests at stake.

   "The paid politicians, the ambitious statesmen, who exploit the
   evil passions of the populace, and the imbeciles who are
   deluded by fine-sounding phrases, have so embittered national
   feuds that the existence of a whole race will be at stake in
   the war of the morrow. One of the elements that constitute the
   modern world is threatened, the conquered people will be wiped
   out of existence, and whichever it may be, we shall see a moral
   force annihilated, as if there were too many forces to work for
   good--we shall have a new Europe formed on foundations so
   unjust, so brutal, so sanguinary, stained with so monstrous a
   crime, that it cannot but be worse than the Europe of to-day--
   more iniquitous, more barbarous, more violent.

   "Thus one feels crushed under the weight of an immense
   discouragement.  We are struggling in a CUL DE SAC with muskets
   aimed at us from the housetops.  Our labor is like that of
   sailors executing their last task as the ship begins to sink.
    Our pleasures are those of the condemned victim, who is
   offered his choice of dainties a quarter of an hour before his
   execution.  Thought is paralyzed by anguish, and the most it is
   capable of is to calculate--interpreting the vague phrases of
   ministers, spelling out the sense of the speeches of
   sovereigns, and ruminating on the words attributed to
   diplomatists reported on the uncertain authority of the
   newspapers--whether it is to be to-morrow or the day after,
   this year or the next, that we are to be murdered.  So that one
   might seek in vain in history an epoch more insecure, more
   crushed under the weight of suffering" [footnote: "Le Sens de
   la Vie," pp.208-13].

Here it is pointed out that the force is in the hands of those who work their own destruction,
in the hands of the individual men who make up the masses; it is pointed out that the source
of the evil is the government.  It would seem evident that the contradiction between life and
conscience had reached the limit beyond which it cannot go, and after reaching this limit some
solution of it must be found.

But the author does not think so.  He sees in this the tragedy of human life, and after depicting
all the horror of the position he concludes that human life must be spent in the midst of this
horror.

So much for the attitude to war of those who regard it as something tragic and fated by destiny.

The third category consists of men who have lost all conscience and, consequently, all common
sense and feeling of humanity.

To this category belongs Moltke, whose opinion has been quoted above by Maupassant, and the
majority of military men, who have been educated in this cruel superstition, live by it, and
consequently are often in all simplicity convinced that war is not only an inevitable, but
even a necessary and beneficial thing. This is also the view of some civilians, so-called educated
and cultivated people.

Here is what the celebrated academician Camille Doucet writes in reply to the editor of the
REVUE DES REVUES, where several letters on war were published together:

   "Dear Sir: When you ask the least warlike of academicians
   whether he is a partisan of war, his answer is known
   beforehand.

   "Alas! sir, you yourself speak of the pacific ideal inspiring
   your generous compatriots as a dream.

   "During my life I have heard a great many good people protest
   against this frightful custom of international butchery, which
   all admit and deplore; but how is it to be remedied?

   "Often, too, there have been attempts to suppress dueling; one
   would fancy that seemed an easy task: but not at all!  All that
   has been done hitherto with that noble object has never been
   and never will be of use.

   "All the congresses of both hemispheres may vote against war,
   and against dueling too, but above all arbitrations,
   conventions, and legislations there will always be the personal
   honor of individual men, which has always demanded dueling, and
   the interests of nations, which will always demand war.

   "I wish none the less from the depths of my heart that the
   Congress of Universal Peace may succeed at last in its very
   honorable and difficult enterprise.

   "I am, dear sir, etc.,
   "CAMILLE DOUCET."

The upshot of this is that personal honor requires men to fight, and the interests of nations
require them to ruin and exterminate each other.  As for the efforts to abolish war, they call
for nothing but a smile.

The opinion of another well-known academician, Jules Claretie, is of the same kind.

   "Dear Sir [he writes]: For a man of sense there can be but one
   opinion on the subject of peace and war.

   "Humanity is created to live, to live free, to perfect and
   ameliorate its fate by peaceful labor.  The general harmony
   preached by the Universal Peace Congress is but a dream
   perhaps, but at least it is the fairest of all dreams.  Man is
   always looking toward the Promised Land, and there the harvests
   are to ripen with no fear of their being torn up by shells or
   crushed by cannon wheels...But!  Ah! but----since philosophers
   and philanthropists are not the controlling powers, it is well
   for our soldiers to guard our frontier and homes, and their
   arms, skillfully used, are perhaps the surest guarantee of the
   peace we all love.

   "Peace is a gift only granted to the strong and the resolute.

   "I am, dear sir, etc.,
   "JULES CLARETIE."

The upshot of this letter is that there is no harm in talking about what no one intends or
feels obliged to do.  But when it comes to practice, we must fight.

And here now is the view lately expressed by the most popular novelist in Europe, Emile Zola:

   "I regard war as a fatal necessity, which appears inevitable
   for us from its close connection with human nature and the
   whole constitution of the world.  I should wish that war could
   be put off for the longest possible time.  Nevertheless, the
   moment will come when we shall be forced to go to war.  I am
   considering it at this moment from the standpoint of universal
   humanity, and making no reference to our misunderstanding with
   Germany--a most trivial incident in the history of mankind.  I
   say that war is necessary and beneficial, since it seems one of
   the conditions of existence for humanity.  War confronts us
   everywhere, not only war between different races and peoples,
   but war too, in private and family life.  It seems one of the
   principal elements of progress, and every step in advance that
   humanity has taken hitherto has been attended by bloodshed.

   "Men have talked, and still talk, of disarmament, while
   disarmament is something impossible, to which, even if it were
   possible, we ought not to consent.  I am convinced that a
   general disarmament throughout the world would involve
   something like a moral decadence, which would show itself in
   general feebleness, and would hinder the progressive
   advancement of humanity.  A warlike nation has always been
   strong and flourishing.  The art of war has led to the
   development of all the other arts.  History bears witness to
   it.  So in Athens and in Rome, commerce, manufactures, and
   literature never attained so high a point of development as
   when those cities were masters of the whole world by force of
   arms.  To take an example from times nearer our own, we may
   recall the age of Louis XIV.  The wars of the Grand Monarque
   were not only no hindrance to the progress of the arts and
   sciences, but even, on the contrary, seem to have promoted and
   favored their development."

So war is a beneficial thing!

But the best expression of this attitude is the view of the most gifted of the writers of this
school, the academician de Vogue. This is what he writes in an article on the Military Section
of the Exhibition of 1889:

   "On the Esplanade des Invalides, among the exotic and colonial
   encampments, a building in a more severe style overawes the
   picturesque bazaar; all these fragments of the globe have come
   to gather round the Palace of War, and in turn our guests mount
   guard submissively before the mother building, but for whom
   they would not be here.  Fine subject for the antithesis of
   rhetoric, of humanitarians who could not fail to whimper over
   this juxtaposition, and to say that 'CECI TUERA CELA,'
   [footnote: Phrase quoted from Victor-Hugo, "Notre-Dame de
   Paris."] that the union of the nations through science and
   labor will overcome the instinct of war.  Let us leave them to
   cherish the chimera of a golden age, which would soon become,
   if it could be realized, an age of mud.  All history teaches us
   that the one is created for the other, that blood is needed to
   hasten and cement the union of the nations.  Natural science
   has ratified in our day the mysterious law revealed to Joseph
   de Maistre by the intuition of his genius and by meditation on
   fundamental truths; he saw the world redeeming itself from
   hereditary degenerations by sacrifice; science shows it
   advancing to perfection through struggle and violent selection;
   there is the statement of the same law in both, expressed in
   different formulas.  The statement is disagreeable, no doubt;
   but the laws of the world are not made for our pleasure, they
   are made for our progress.  Let us enter this inevitable,
   necessary palace of war; we shall be able to observe there how
   the most tenacious of our instincts, without losing any of its
   vigor, is transformed and adapted to the varying exigencies of
   historical epochs."

M. de Vogue finds the necessity for war, according to his views, well expressed by the two
great writers, Joseph de Maistre and Darwin, whose statements he likes so much that he quotes
them again.

   "Dear Sir [he writes to the editor of the REVUE DES REVUES]:
   You ask me my view as to the possible success of the Universal
   Congress of Peace.  I hold with Darwin that violent struggle is
   a law of nature which overrules all other laws; I hold with
   Joseph de Maistre that it is a divine law; two different ways
   of describing the same thing.  If by some impossible chance a
   fraction of human society--all the civilized West, let us
   suppose--were to succeed in suspending the action of this law,
   some races of stronger instincts would undertake the task of
   putting it into action against us: those races would vindicate
   nature's reasoning against human reason; they would be
   successful, because the certainty of peace--I do not say PEACE,
   I say the CERTAINTY OF PEACE--would, in half a century,
   engender a corruption and a decadence more destructive for
   mankind than the worst of wars.  I believe that we must do with
   war--the criminal law of humanity--as with all our criminal
   laws, that is, soften them, put them in force as rarely as
   possible; use every effort to make their application
   unnecessary.  But all the experience of history teaches us that
   they cannot be altogether suppressed so long as two men are
   left on earth, with bread, money, and a woman between them.

   "I should be very happy if the Congress would prove me in
   error. But I doubt if it can prove history, nature, and God in
   error also.

   "I am, dear sir, etc.
   "E. M. DE VOGUE."

This amounts to saying that history, human nature, and God show us that so long as there are
two men, and bread, money and a woman-- there will be war.  That is to say that no progress
will lead men to rise above the savage conception of life, which regards no participation of
bread, money (money is good in this context) and woman possible without fighting.

They are strange people, these men who assemble in Congresses, and make speeches to show us
how to catch birds by putting salt on their tails, though they must know it is impossible to
do it.  And amazing are they too, who, like Maupassant, Rod, and many others, see clearly all
the horror of war, all the inconsistency of men not doing what is needful, right, and beneficial
for them to do; who lament over the tragedy of life, and do not see that the whole tragedy
is at an end directly men, ceasing to take account of any unnecessary considerations, refuse
to do what is hateful and disastrous to them.  They are amazing people truly, but those who,
like De Vogue and others, who, professing the doctrine of evolution, regard war as not only
inevitable, but beneficial and therefore desirable--they are terrible, hideous, in their moral
perversion.  The others, at least, say that they hate evil, and love good, but these openly
declare that good and evil do not exist.

All discussion of the possibility of re-establishing peace instead of everlasting war--is the
pernicious sentimentality of phrasemongers.  There is a law of evolution by which it follows
that I must live and act in an evil way; what is to be done?  I am an educated man, I know
the law of evolution, and therefore I will act in an evil way.  "ENTRONS AU PALAIS DE LA GUERRE."
There is the law of evolution, and therefore there is neither good nor evil, and one must live
for the sake of one's personal existence, leaving the rest to the action of the law of evolution.
This is the last word of refined culture, and with it, of that overshadowing of conscience
which has come upon the educated classes of our times.  The desire of the educated classes
to support the ideas they prefer, and the order of existence based on them, has attained its
furthest limits. They lie, and delude themselves, and one another, with the subtlest forms
of deception, simply to obscure, to deaden conscience.

Instead of transforming their life into harmony with their conscience, they try by every means
to stifle its voice.  But it is in darkness that the light begins to shine, and so the light
is rising upon our epoch.

CHAPTER VII.

SIGNIFICANCE OF COMPULSORY SERVICE.

Universal Compulsory Service is not a Political Accident, but the Furthest Limit of the Contradiction
Inherent in the Social Conception of Life--Origin of Authority in Society--Basis of Authority
is Physical Violence--To be Able to Perform its Acts of Violence Authority Needs a Special
Organization--The Army-- Authority, that is, Violence, is the Principle which is Destroying
the Social Conception of Life--Attitude of Authority to the Masses, that is, Attitude of Government
to Working Oppressed Classes--Governments Try to Foster in Working Classes the Idea that State
Force is Necessary to Defend Them from External Enemies--But the Army is Principally Needed
to Preserve Government from its own Subjects--The Working Classes--Speech of M. de Caprivi--All
Privileges of Ruling Classes Based on Violence--The Increase of Armies up to Point of Universal
Service--Universal Compulsory Service Destroys all the Advantages of Social Life, which Government
is Intended to Preserve--Compulsory Service is the Furthest Limit of Submission, since in Name
of the State it Requires Sacrifice of all that can be Precious to a Man--Is Government Necessary?--The
Sacrifices Demanded by Government in Compulsory Service have No Longer any Reasonable Basis--And
there is More Advantage to be Gained by not Submitting to the Demands of the State than by
Submitting to Them.

Educated people of the upper classes are trying to stifle the ever-growing sense of the necessity
of transforming the existing social order.  But life, which goes on growing more complex, and
developing in the same direction, and increases the inconsistencies and the sufferings of men,
brings them to the limit beyond which they cannot go.  This furthest limit of inconsistency
is universal compulsory military service.

It is usually supposed that universal military service and the increased armaments connected
with it, as well as the resulting increase of taxes and national debts, are a passing phenomenon,
produced by the particular political situation of Europe, and that it may be removed by certain
political combinations without any modification of the inner order of life.

This is absolutely incorrect.  Universal military service is only the internal inconsistency
inherent in the social conception of life, carried to its furthest limits, and becoming evident
when a certain stage of material development is reached.

The social conception of life, we have seen, consists in the transfer of the aim of life from
the individual to groups and their maintenance--to the tribe, family, race, or state.

In the social conception of life it is supposed that since the aim of life is found in groups
of individuals, individuals will voluntarily sacrifice their own interests for the interests
of the group.  And so it has been, and still is, in fact, in certain groups, the distinction
being that they are the most primitive forms of association in the family or tribe or race,
or even in the patriarchal state.  Through tradition handed down by education and supported
by religious sentiment, individuals without compulsion merged their interests in the interest
of the group and sacrificed their own good for the general welfare.

But the more complex and the larger societies become, and especially the more often conquest
becomes the cause of the amalgamation of people into a state, the more often individuals strive
to attain their own aims at the public expense, and the more often it becomes necessary to
restrain these insubordinate individuals by recourse to authority, that is, to violence.  The
champions of the social conception of life usually try to connect the idea of authority, that
is, of violence, with the idea of moral influence, but this connection is quite impossible.

The effect of moral influence on a man is to change his desires and to bend them in the direction
of the duty required of him. The man who is controlled by moral influence acts in accordance
with his own desires.  Authority, in the sense in which the word is ordinarily understood,
is a means of forcing a man to act in opposition to his desires.  The man who submits to authority
does not do as he chooses but as he is obliged by authority.  Nothing can oblige a man to do
what he does not choose except physical force, or the threat of it, that is--deprivation of
freedom, blows, imprisonment, or threats--easily carried out--of such punishments.  This is
what authority consists of and always has consisted of.

In spite of the unceasing efforts of those who happen to be in authority to conceal this and
attribute some other significance to it, authority has always meant for man the cord, the chain
with which he is bound and fettered, or the knout with which he is to be flogged, or the ax
with which he is to have hands, ears, nose, or head cut off, or at the very least, the threat
of these terrors.  So it was under Nero and Ghenghis Khan, and so it is to-day, even under
the most liberal government in the Republics of the United States or of France.  If men submit
to authority, it is only because they are liable to these punishments in case of non- submission.
All state obligations, payment of taxes, fulfillment of state duties, and submission to punishments,
exile, fines, etc., to which people appear to submit voluntarily, are always based on bodily
violence or the threat of it.

The basis of authority is bodily violence. The possibility of applying bodily violence to people
is provided above all by an organization of armed men, trained to act in unison in submission
to one will.  These bands of armed men, submissive to a single will, are what constitute the
army.  The army has always been and still is the basis of power.  Power is always in the hands
of those who control the army, and all men in power--from the Roman Caesars to the Russian
and German Emperors--take more interest in their army than in anything, and court popularity
in the army, knowing that if that is on their side their power is secure.

The formation and aggrandizement of the army, indispensable to the maintenance of authority,
is what has introduced into the social conception of life the principle that is destroying it.

The object of authority and the justification for its existence lie in the restraint of those
who aim at attaining their personal interests to the detriment of the interests of society.

But however power has been gained, those who possess it are in no way different from other
men, and therefore no more disposed than others to subordinate their own interests to those
of the society. On the contrary, having the power to do so at their disposal, they are more
disposed than others to subordinate the public interests to their own.  Whatever means men
have devised for preventing those in authority from over-riding public interests for their
own benefit, or for intrusting power only to the most faultless people, they have not so far
succeeded in either of those aims.

All the methods of appointing authorities that have been tried, divine right, and election,
and heredity, and balloting, and assemblies and parliaments and senate--have all proved ineffectual.
Everyone knows that not one of these methods attains the aim either of intrusting power only
to the incorruptible, or of preventing power from being abused.  Everyone knows on the contrary
that men in authority--be they emperors, ministers, governors, or police officers--are always,
simply from the possession of power, more liable to be demoralized, that is, to subordinate
public interests to their personal aims than those who have not the power to do so.  Indeed,
it could not be otherwise.

The state conception of life could be justified only so long as all men voluntarily sacrificed
their personal interests to the public welfare.  But so soon as there were individuals who
would not voluntarily sacrifice their own interests, and authority, that is, violence, was
needed to restrain them, then the disintegrating principle of the coercion of one set of people
by another set entered into the social conception of the organization based on it.

For the authority of one set of men over another to attain its object of restraining those
who override public interests for their personal ends, power ought only to be put into the
hands of the impeccable, as it is supposed to be among the Chinese, and as it was supposed
to be in the Middle Ages, and is even now supposed to be by those who believe in the consecration
by anointing.  Only under those conditions could the social organization be justified.

But since this is not the case, and on the contrary men in power are always far from being
saints, through the very fact of their possession of power, the social organization based on
power has no justification.

Even if there was once a time when, owing to the low standard of morals, and the disposition
of men to violence, the existence of an authority to restrain such violence was an advantage,
because the violence of government was less than the violence of individuals, one cannot but
see that this advantage could not be lasting.  As the disposition of individuals to violence
diminished, and as the habits of the people became more civilized, and as power grew more social
organization demoralized through lack of restraint, this advantage disappeared.

The whole history of the last two thousand years is nothing but the history of this gradual
change of relation between the moral development of the masses on the one hand and the demoralization
of governments on the other.

