Thus Dr. J. Clarke, in his treatise on natural evil, quoted by Bishop Law (Note 32), shows
how mischiefs arise from the laws of matter; and says this could not be avoided "without altering
those primary laws, i. e., making it something else than what it is, or changing it into another
form; the result of which would only be to render it liable to evils of another kind against
which the same objections would equally lie." So Dr. J. Burnett, in his discourses on evil,
at the Boyle Lecture (vol. ii. P. 201), conceives that he explains death by saying that the
materials of which the body is composed "cannot last beyond seventy years, or thereabouts,
and it was originally intended that we should die at that age." Pain, too, he imagines is accounted
for by observing that we are endowed with feelings, and that if we could not feel pain, so
neither could we pleasure (p. 202). Again, he says that there are certain qualities which "in
the nature of things matter is incapable of" (p. 207). And as if he really felt the pressure
of this difficulty, he at length comes to this conclusion, that life is a free gift, which
we had no right to exact, and which the Deity lay under no necessity to grant, and therefore
we must take it with the conditions annexed (p. 210); which is undeniably true, but is excluding
the discussion and not answering the question proposed. Nor must it be forgotten that some
reasoners deal strangely with the facts. Thus Derham, in his Physico-Theology, explaining the
use of poison in snakes, first desires us to bear in mind that many venomous ones are of use
medicinally in stubborn diseases, which is not true, and if it were, would prove nothing, unless
the venom, not the flesh, were proved to be medicinal; and then says, they are "scourges upon
ungrateful and sinful men;" adding the truly astounding absurdity, "that the nations which
know not God are the most annoyed with noxious reptiles and other pernicious creatures." (Book
ix. c. I); which if it were true would raise a double difficulty, by showing that one people
was scourged because another had neglected to preach the gospel among them. Dr. J. Burnett,
too, accounts for animals being suffered to be killed as food for man, by affirming that they
thereby gain all the care which man is thus led to bestow upon them, and so are, on the whole,
the better for being eaten. (Boyle Lecture, II. 207). But the most singular error has perhaps
been fallen into by Dr. Sherlock, and the most, unhappy--which yet Bishop Law has cited as
a sufficient answer to the objection respecting death: "It is a great instrument of government,
and makes men afraid of committing such villanies as the laws of their country have made capital."
(Note 34). So that the greatest error in the criminal legislation of all countries forms part
of the divine providence, and man has at length discovered, by the light of reason, the folly
and the wickedness of using an instrument expressly created by divine Omniscience to be abused!

The remaining portion of King's work, filling the second volume of Bishop Law's edition, is
devoted to the explanation of Moral Evil; and here the gratuitous assumption of the "nature
of things," and the "laws of nature," more or less pervade the whole as in the former parts
of the Inquiry.

The fundamental position of the whole is, that man having been endowed with free will, his
happiness consists in making due elections, or in the right exercise of that free will. Five
causes are then given of undue elections, in which of course his misery consists as far as
that depends on himself; these causes are error, negligence, over-indulgence of free choice,
obstinacy or bad habit, and the importunity of natural appetites; which last, it must in passing
be remarked, belongs to the head of physical evil, and cannot be assumed in this discussion
without begging the question. The great difficulty is then stated and grappled with, namely,
how to reconcile these undue elections with divine goodness. The objector states that free
will might exist without the power of making undue elections, he being suffered to range, as
it were, only among lawful objects of choice. But the answer to this seems sound, that such
a will would only be free in name; it would be free to choose among certain things, but would
not be free-will. The objector again urges, that either the choice is free and may fall upon
evil objects, against the goodness of God, or it is so restrained as only to fall on good objects.
Against freedom of the will King's solution is, that more evil would result from preventing
these undue elections than from suffering them, and so the Deity has only done the best he
could in the circumstances; a solution obviously liable to the same objection as that respecting
Natural Evil. There are three ways, says the Archbishop, in which undue elections might have
been prevented; not creating a free agent--constant interference with his free-will--removing
him to another state where he would not be tempted to go astray in his choice. A fourth mode
may, however, be suggested--creating a free-agent without any inclination to evil, or any temptation
from external objects. When our author disposes of the second method, by stating that it assumes
a constant miracle, as great in the moral as altering the course of the planets hourly would
be in the material universe, nothing can be more sound or more satisfactory. But when he argues
that our whole happiness consists in a consciousness of freedom of election, and that we should
never know happiness were we restrained in any particular, it seems wholly inconceivable how
he should have omitted to consider the prodigious comfort of a state in which we should be
guaranteed against any error or impropriety of choice; a state in which we should both be unable
to go astray and always feel conscious of that security. He, however, begs the question most
manifestly in dealing with the two other methods stated, by which undue elections might have
been precluded. "You would have freedom," says he, "without any inclination to sin; but it
may justly be doubted if this is possible in the present state of things," (chap. v. s. 5,
sub. 2); and again, in answering the question why God did not remove us into another state
where no temptation could seduce us, he says: "It is plain that in the present state of things
it is impossible for men to live without natural evils or the danger of sinning." (Ib.) Now
the whole question arises upon the constitution of the present state of things. If that is
allowed to be inevitable, or is taken as a datum in the discussion, there ceases to be any
question at all.

The doctrine of a chain of being is enlarged upon, and with much felicity of illustration.
But it only wraps up the difficulty in other words, without solving it. For then the question
becomes this--Why did the Deity create such a chain as could not be filled up without misery?
It is, indeed, merely restating the fact of evil existing; for whether we say there is suffering
among sentient beings--or the universe consists of beings more or less happy, more or less
miserable--or there exists a chain of beings varying in perfection and in felicity--it is manifestly
all one proposition. The remark of Bayle upon this view of the subject is really not at all
unsound, and is eminently ingenious: "Would you defend a king who should confine all his subjects
of a certain age in dungeons, upon the ground that if he did not, many of the cells he had
built must remain empty?" The answer of Bishop Law to this remark is by no means satisfactory.
He says it assumes that more misery than happiness exists. Now, in this view of the question,
the balance is quite immaterial. The existence of any evil at all raises the question as much
as the preponderance of evil over good, because the question conceives a perfectly good Being,
and asks how such a Being can have permitted any evil at all. Upon this part of the subject
both King and Law have fallen into an error which recent discoveries place in a singularly
clear light. They say that the argument they are dealing with would lead to leaving the earth
to the brutes without human inhabitants. But the recent discoveries in Fossil Osteology have
proved that the earth, for ages before the last 5,000 or 6,000 years, was left to the lower
animals; nay, that in a still earlier period of its existence no animal life at all was maintained
upon its surface. So that, in fact, the foundation is removed of the reductio ad absurdum attempted
by the learned prelates.

A singular argument is used towards the latter end of the inquiry. When the Deity, it is said,
resolved to create other beings, He must of necessity tolerate imperfect natures in his handiwork,
just as he must the equality of a circle's radii when he drew a circle. Who does not perceive
the difference? The meaning of the word circle is that the radii are all equal; this equality
is a necessary truth. But it is not shown that men could not exist without the imperfections
they labor under. Yet this is the argument suggested by these authors while complaining (chap.
v. s. 5, sub. 7, div. 7), that Lactantius had not sufficiently answered the Epicurean dilemma;
it is the substitute propounded to supply that father's deficiency.--"When, therefore," says
the Archbishop, "matter, motion and free-will are constituted, the Deity must necessarily permit
corruption of things and the abuse of liberty, or something worse, for these cannot be separated
without a contradiction, and God is no more important, because he cannot separate equality
of radii from a circle."--Chap. v. s. 5, subs. 7. If he could not have created evil, he would
not have been omnipotent; if he would not, he must let his power lie idle; and rejecting evil
have rejected all the good. "Thus," exclaims the author with triumph and self-complacency,
"then vanishes this Herculean argument which induced the Epicureans to discard the good Deity,
and the Manicheans to substitute an evil one." (Ib. subs. 7, sub. fine.) Nor is the explanation
rendered more satisfactory, or indeed more intelligible, by the concluding passage of all,
in which we are told that "from a conflict of two properties, namely, omnipotence and goodness,
evils necessarily arise. These attributes amicably conspire together, and yet restrain and
limit each other." It might have been expected from hence that no evil at all should be found
to exist. "There is a kind of struggle and opposition between them, whereof the evils in nature
bear the shadow and resemblance. Here, then, and no where else, mar we find the primary and
most certain rise and origin of evils."

Such is this celebrated work; and it may safely be affirmed that a more complete failure to
overcome a great and admitted difficulty--a more unsatisfactory solution of an important question--is
not to be found in the whole history of metaphysical science.

Among the authors who have treated of this subject, a high place is justly given to Archdeacon
Bulguy, whose work on Divine Benevolence is always referred to by Dr. Paley with great commendation.
But certain it is that this learned and pious writer either had never formed to himself a very
precise notion of the real question under discussion, namely, the compatibility of the appearances
which we see and which we consider as evil, with a Being infinitely powerful as well as good;
or he had in his mind some opinions respecting the divine nature, opinions of a limitary kind,
which he does not state distinctly, although he constantly suffers them to influence his seasonings.
Hence, whenever he comes close to the real difficulty he appears to beg the question. A very
few instances of what really pervades the whole work will suffice to show how unsatisfactory
its general scope is, although it contains, like the treatise of Dr. King and Dr. Law's Commentary,
many valuable observations on the details of the subject.

And first we may perceive that what he terms a "previous remark," and desires the reader "to
carry along through the whole proof of divine benevolence," really contains a statement that
the difficulty is to be evaded and not met. "An intention of producing good," says he, "will
be sufficiently apparent in any particular instance if the thing considered can neither be
changed nor taken away without loss or harm, all other things continuing the same. Should you
suppose various things in the system changed at once, you can neither judge of the possibility
nor the consequences of the changes, having no degree of experience to direct you." Now assuredly
this postulate makes the whole question as easy a one as ever metaphysician or naturalist had
to solve. For it is no longer--Why did a powerful and benevolent Being create a world in which
there is evil--but only--The world being given, how far are its different arrangements consistent
with one another? According to this, the earthquake at Lisbon, Voltaire's favorite instance,
destroyed thousands of persons, because it is in the nature of things that subterraneous vapors
should explode, and that when houses fall on human beings they should be killed. Then if Dr.
Balguy goes to his other argument, on which he often dwells, that if this nature were altered,
we cannot possibly tell whether worse might not ensue; this, too, is assuming a limited power
in the Deity, contrary to the hypothesis. It may most justly be said, that if there be any
one supposition necessarily excluded from the whole argument, it is the fundamental supposition
of the "previous remark," namely, "all other things continuing the same."

But see how this assumption pervades and paralyzes the whole argument, rendering it utterly
inconclusive. The author is to answer an objection derived from the constitution of our appetites
for food, and his reply is, that "we cannot tell how far it was possible for the stomachs and
palates of animals to be differently formed, unless by some remedy worse than the disease."
Again, upon the question of pain: "How do we know that it was possible for the uneasy sensation
to be confined to particular cases?" So we meet the same fallacy under another form, as evil
being the result of "general principles." But no one has ever pushed this so far as Dr. Balguy,
for he says, "that in a government so conducted, many events are likely to happen contrary
to the intention of its author." He now calls in the aid of chance, or accident.--"It is probable,"
he says, "that God should be good, for evil is more likely to be accidental than appears from
experience in the conduct of men." Indeed, his fundamental position of the Deity's benevolence
is rested upon this foundation, that "pleasures only were intended, and that the pains are
accidental consequences, although the means of producing pleasures." The same recourse to accident
is repeatedly had. Thus, "the events to which we are exposed in this imperfect state appear
to be the accidental, not natural, effects of our frame and condition." Now can any one thing
be more manifest than that the very first notion of a wise and powerful Being excludes all
such assumptions as things happening contrary to His intention; and that when we use the word
chance or accident, which only means our human ignorance of causes, we at once give up the
whole question, as if we said, "It is a subject about which we know nothing." So again as to
power. "A good design is more difficult to be executed, and therefore more likely to be executed
imperfectly, than an evil one, that is, with a mixture of effects foreign to the design and
opposite to it." This at once assumes the Deity to be powerless. But a general statement is
afterwards made more distinctly to the same effect. "Most sure it is that he can do all things
possible. But are we in any degree competent judges of the bounds of possibility?" So again
under another form nature is introduced as something different from its author, and offering
limits to his power. "It is plainly not the method of nature to obtain her ends instantaneously."
Passing over such propositions as that "useless evil is a thing never seen," (when the whole
question is why the same ends were not attained without evil), and a variety of other subordinate
assumptions contrary to the hypothesis, we may rest with this general statement, which almost
every page of Dr. Balguy's book bears out, that the question which he has set himself to solve
is anything rather than the real one touching the Origin of Evil; and that this attempt at
a solution is as ineffectual as any of those which we have been considering.

Is, then, the question wholly incapable of solution, which all these learned and ingenious
men have so entirely failed in solving? Must the difficulty remain forever unsurmounted, and
only be approached to discover that it is insuperable? Must the subject, of all others the
most interesting for us to know well, be to us always as a sealed book, of which we can never
know anything? From the nature of the thing--from the question relating to the operation of
a power which, to our limited faculties, must ever be incomprehensible--there seems too much
reason for believing that nothing precise or satisfactory ever will be attained by human reason
regarding this great argument; and that the bounds which limit our views will only be passed
when we have quitted the encumbrances of our mortal state, and are permitted to survey those
regions beyond the sphere of our present circumscribed existence. The other branch of Natural
Theology, that which investigates the evidences of Intelligence and Design, and leads us to
a clear apprehension of the Deity's power and wisdom, is as satisfactorily cultivated as any
other department of science, rests upon the same species of proof, and affords results as precise
as they are sublime. This branch will never be distinctly known, and will always so disappoint
the inquirer as to render the lights of Revelation peculiarly acceptable, although even those
lights leave much of it still involved in darkness--still mysterious and obscure.[2]

Yet let us endeavor to suggest some possible explication, while we admit that nothing certain,
nothing entirely satisfactory can be reached. The failure of the great writers whose works
we have been contemplating may well teach us humility, make us distrust ourselves, and moderate
within us any sanguine hopes of success. But they should not make us wholly despair of at least
showing in what direction the solution of the difficulty is to be sought, and whereabouts it
will probably be found situated, when our feeble reason shall be strengthened and expanded.
For one cause of their discomfiture certainly has been their aiming too high, attempting a
complete solution of a problem which only admitted of approximation, and discussion of limits.

It is admitted on all hands that the demonstration is complete which shows the existence of
intelligence and design in the universe. The structure of the eye and ear in exact confirmity
to the laws of optics and acoustics, shows as clearly as any experiment can show anything,
that the source, cause or origin is common both to the properties of light and the formation
of the lenses and retina in the eye--both to the properties of sound and the tympanum, malleus,
incus and stapes of the ear. No doubt whatever can exist upon the subject, any more than, if
we saw a particular order issued to a body of men to perform certain uncommon evolutions, and
afterwards saw the same body performing those same evolutions, we could doubt their having
received the order. A designing and intelligent and skillful author of these admirably adapted
works is equally a clear inference from the same facts. We can no more doubt it than we can
question, when we see a mill grinding corn into flour, that the machinery was made by some
one who designed by means of it to prepare the materials of bread. The same conclusions are
drawn in a vast variety of other instances, both with respect to the parts of human and other
bodies, and with respect to most of the other arrangements of nature. Similar conclusions are
also drawn from our consciousness, and the knowledge which it gives us of the structure of
the mind.[3] Thus we find that attention quickens memory and enables us to recollect; and that
habit renders all exertions and all acquisitions easy, beside having the effect of alleviating
pain.

But when we carry our survey into other parts, whether of the natural or moral system, we cannot
discover any design at all. We frequently perceive structures the use of which we know nothing
about; parts of the animal frame that apparently have no functions to perform--nay, that are
the source of pain without yielding any perceptible advantage; arrangements and movements of
bodies which are of one particular kind, and yet we are quite at a loss to discern any reason
why they might not have been of many other descriptions; operations of nature that seem to
serve no purpose whatever; and other operations and other arrangements, chosen equally without
any beneficial view, and yet which often give rise to much apparent confusion and mischief.
Now, the question is, first, whether in any one of these cases of arrangement and structures
with no visible object at all, we can for a moment suppose that there really is no object answered,
or only conceive that we have been unable to discover it? Secondly, whether in the cases where
mischief sometimes is perceived, and no other purpose appears to be effected, we do not almost
as uniformly lay the blame on our own ignorance, and conclude, not that the arrangement was
made without any design, and that mischief arises without any contriver, but that if we knew
the whole case we should find a design and contrivance, and also that the apparent mischief
would sink into the general good? It is not necessary to admit, for our present purpose, this
latter proposition, though it brings us closer to the matter in hand; it is sufficient for
the present to admit, what no one doubts, that when a part of the body, for instance, is discovered,
to which, like the spleen, we cannot assign any function in the animal system, we never think
of concluding that it is made for no use, but only that we have as yet not been able to discover
its use.

Now, let us ask, why do we, without any hesitation whatever, or any exception whatever, always
and immediately arrive at this conclusion respecting intelligence and design? Nothing could
be more unphilosophical, nay, more groundless, than such a process of reasoning, if we had
only been able to trace design in one or two instances; for instance, if we found only the
eye to show proofs of contrivance, it would be wholly gratuitous, when we saw the ear, to assume
that it was adapted to the nature of sound, and still more so, if, on examination, we perceived
it bore no perceptible relation to the laws of acoustics. The proof of contrivance in one particular
is nothing like a proof, nay, does not even furnish the least presumption of contrivance in
other particulars; because, a priori, it is just as easy to suppose one part of nature to be
designed for a purpose, and another part, nay, all other parts, to be formed at random and
without any contrivance, as to suppose that the formation of the whole is governed by design.
Why, then, do we, invariably and undoubtedly, adopt the course of reasoning which has been
mentioned, and never for a moment suspect anything to be formed without some reason--some rational
purpose? The only ground of this belief is, that we have been able distinctly to trace design
in so vast a majority of cases as leaves us no power of doubting that, if our faculties had
been sufficiently powerful, or our investigation sufficiently diligent, we should also have
been able to trace it in those comparatively few instances respecting which we still are in
the dark.

It may be worth while to give a few instances of the ignorance in which we once were of design
in some important arrangements of nature, and of the knowledge which we now possess to show
the purpose of their formation. Before Sir Isaac Newton's optical discoveries, we could not
tell why the structure of the eye was so complex, and why several lenses and humors were required
to form a picture of objects upon the retina. Indeed, until Dolland's subsequent discovery
of the achromatic effect of combining various glasses, and Mr. Blair's still more recent experiments
on the powers of different refracting media, we were not able distinctly to perceive the operation
and use of the complicacy in the structure of the eye. We now well understand its nature, and
are able to comprehend how that which had at one time, nay, for ages, seemed to be an unnecessary
complexity; forms the most perfect of all optical instruments, and according to the most certain
laws of refraction and of dispersion.

So, too, we had observed for some centuries the forms of the orbits in which the heavenly bodies
move, and we had found these to be ellipses with a very small eccentricity. But why this was
the form of those orbits no one could even conjecture. If any person, the most deeply skilled
in mathematical science, and the most internally convinced of the universal prevalence of design
and contrivance in the structure of the universe, had been asked what reason there was for
the planets moving in ellipses so, nearly approaching to circles, he could not have given any
good reason, at least beyond a guess. The force of gravitation, even admitting that to be,
as it were, a condition of the creation of matter, would have made those bodies revolve in
ellipses of any degree of eccentricity just as well, provided the angle and the force of projection
had been varied. Then, why was this form rather, than any other chosen? No one knew; yet no
one doubted that there was ample reason for it. Accordingly the sublime discoveries of Lagrange
and La Place have shown us that this small eccentricity is one material element in the formula
by which it is shown that all the irregularities of the system are periodical, and that the
deviation never can exceed a certain amount on either hand.

But, again, while we are ignorant of this, perhaps the most sublime truth in all science, we
were always arguing as if the system had an imperfection, as if the disturbing forces of the
different planets and the sun, acting on one another, constantly changed the orbits of each
planet, and must, in a course of ages, work the destruction of the whole planetary arrangement
which we had contemplated with so great admiration and with awe. It was deemed enough if we
could show that this derangement must be extremely slow, and that, therefore, the system might
last for many more ages without requiring any interposition of omnipotent skill to preserve
it by rectifying its motions. Thus one of the most celebrated writers above cited argues that,
"from the nature of gravitation and the concentricity of the orbits, the irregularities produced
are so slowly operated in contracting, dilating and inclining those orbits, that the system
may go on for many thousand years before any extraordinary interference becomes necessary in
order to correct it." And Dr. Burnett adds, that "those small irregularities cast no discredit
on the good contrivance of the whole." Nothing, however, could cast greater discredit if it
were as he supposed, and as all men previous to the late discoveries supposed; it was only,
they rather think, a "small irregularity," which was every hour tending to the destruction
of the whole system, and which must have deranged or confounded its whole structure long before
it destroyed it. Yet now we see that the wisdom, to which a thousand years are as one day,
not satisfied with constructing a fabric which might last for "many thousand years without
His interference," has so formed it that it may thus endure forever.

Now if such be the grounds of our belief in the universal prevalence of Design, and such the
different lights which at different periods of our progress in science we possess upon this
branch of the divine government; if we undoubtingly believe that contrivance is universal only
because we can trace and comprehend it in a great majority of instances, and if the number
of exceptions to the rule is occasionally diminished as our knowledge of the particulars is
from time to time extended--may we not apply the same principle to the apprehension of Benevolent
purpose, and infer from the number of instances in which we plainly perceive a good intention,
that if we were better acquainted with those cases in which a contrary intention is now apparent,
we should there, too, find the generally pervading character of Benevolence to prevail? Not
only is this the manner in which we reason respecting the Design of the Creator from examining
his works; it is the manner in which we treat the conduct of our fellow-creatures. A man of
the most extensive benevolence and strictest integrity in his general deportment has done something
equivocal; nay, something apparently harsh and cruel; we are slow to condemn him; we give him
credit for acting with a good motive and for a righteous purpose; we rest satisfied that "if
we only knew everything he would come out blameless." This arises from a just and a sound view
of human character, and its general consistency with itself. The same reasoning may surely
be applied with all humility and reverence, to the works and the intentions of the great Being
who has implanted in our minds the principles which lead to that just and sound view of the
deeds and motives of men.

