SECRET SOCIETIES and SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS

by

NESTA H. WEBSTER

CHRISTIAN BOOK CLUB OF AMERICA

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

The Chevalier de Boufflers The French Revolution World Revolution The Socialist Network The
Surrender of an Empire Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette: Before the Revolution Louis XVI and
Marie Antoinette: During the Revolution Spacious Days

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is in Italy a power which we seldom mention in this House ... I mean the secret societies....
It is useless to deny, because it is impossible to conceal, that a great part of Europe--the
whole of Italy and France and a great portion of Germany, to say nothing of other countries--is
covered with a network of these secret societies, just as the superficies of the earth is now
being covered with railroads. And what are their objects? They do not attempt to conceal them.
They do not want constitutional government; they do not want ameliorated institutions ... they
want to change the tenure of land, to drive out the present owners of the soil and to put an
end to ecclesiastical establishments. Some of them may go further...." (DISRAELI in the House
of Commons, July 14, 1856.)

PREFACE

It is a matter of some regret to me that I have been so far unable to continue the series of
studies on the French Revolution of which The Chevalier de Boufflers and The French Revolution,
a Study in Democracy formed the first two volumes. But the state of the world at the end of
the Great War seemed to demand an enquiry into the present phase of the revolutionary movement,
hence my attempt to follow its course up to modern times in World Revolution. And now before
returning to that first cataclysm I have felt impelled to devote one more book to the Revolution
as a whole by going this time further back into the past and attempting to trace its origins
from the first century of the Christian era. For it is only by taking a general survey of the
movement that it is possible to understand the causes of any particular phase of its existence.
The French Revolution did not arise merely out of conditions or ideas peculiar to the eighteenth
century, nor the Bolshevist Revolution out of political and social conditions in Russia or
the teaching of Karl Marx. Both these explosions were produced by forces which, making use
of popular suffering and discontent, had long been gathering strength for an onslaught not
only on Christianity, but on all social and moral order.

It is of immense significance to notice with what resentment this point of view is met in certain
quarters. When I first began to write on revolution a well-known London publisher said to me,
"Remember that if you take an anti-revolutionary line you will have the whole literary world
against you." This appeared to me extraordinary. Why should the literary world sympathize with
a movement which from the French Revolution onwards has always been directed against literature,
art, and science, and has openly proclaimed its aim to exalt the manual workers over the intelligentsia?
"Writers must be proscribed as the most dangerous enemies of the people," said Robespierre;
his colleague Dumas said all clever men should be guillotined. "The system of persecution against
men of talents was organized.... They cried out in the sections of Paris, 'Beware of that man
for he has written a book!'"[1] Precisely the same policy has been followed in Russia. Under
Moderate Socialism in Germany the professors, not the "people," are starving in garrets. Yet
the whole press of our country is permeated with subversive influences. Not merely in partisan
works, but in manuals of history or literature for use in Schools, Burke is reproached for
warning us against the French Revolution and Carlyle's panegyric is applauded. And whilst every
slip on the part of an anti-revolutionary writer is seized on by the critics and held up as
an example of the whole, the most glaring errors not only of conclusions but of facts pass
unchallenged if they happen to be committed by a partisan of the movement. The principle laid
down by Collot d'Herbois still holds good: "Tout est permis pour quiconque agit dans le sens
de la révolution."

All this was unknown to me when I first embarked on my work. I knew that French writers of
the past had distorted facts to suit their own political views, that a conspiracy of history
is still directed by certain influences in the masonic lodges and the Sorbonne; I did not know
that this conspiracy was being carried on in this country. Therefore the publisher's warning
did not daunt me. If I was wrong either in my conclusions or facts I was prepared to be challenged.
Should not years of laborious historical research meet either with recognition or with reasoned
and scholarly refutation? But although my book received a great many generous and appreciative
reviews in the press, criticisms which were hostile took a form which I had never anticipated.
Not a single honest attempt was made to refute either my French Revolution or World Revolution
by the usual methods of controversy; statements founded on documentary evidence were met with
flat contradiction unsupported by a shred of counter evidence. In general the plan adopted
was not to disprove, but to discredit by means of flagrant misquotations, by attributing to
me views I had never expressed, or even by means of offensive personalities. It will surely
be admitted that this method of attack is unparalleled in any other sphere of literary controversy.

It is interesting to notice that precisely the same line was adopted a hundred years ago with
regard to Professor Robison and the Abbé Barruel, whose works on the secret causes of the French
Revolution created an immense sensation in their day. The legitimate criticisms that might
have been made on their work find no place in the diatribes levelled against them; their enemies
content themselves merely with calumnies and abuse. A contemporary American writer, Seth Payson,
thus describes the methods employed to discredit them:

     The testimony of Professor Robison and Abbé Barruel would doubtless
     have been considered as ample in any case which did not interest
     the prejudices and passions of men against them. The scurrility and
     odium with which they have been loaded is perfectly natural, and
     what the nature of their testimony would have led one to expect.
     Men will endeavour to invalidate that evidence which tends to
     unveil their dark designs: and it cannot be expected that those who
     believe that "the end sanctifies the means" will be very scrupulous
     as to their measures. Certainly he was not who invented the
     following character and arbitrarily applied it to Dr. Robison,
     which might have been applied with as much propriety to any other
     person in Europe or America. The character here referred to, is
     taken from the American Mercury, printed at Hartford, September
     26, 1799, by E. Babcock. In this paper, on the pretended authority
     of Professor Ebeling, we are told "that Robison had lived too fast
     for his income, and to supply deficiencies had undertaken to alter
     a bank bill, that he was detected and fled to France; that having
     been expelled the Lodge in Edinburgh, he applied in France for the
     second grade, but was refused; that he made the same attempt in
     Germany and afterwards in Russia, but never succeeded; and from
     this entertained the bitterest hatred to masonry; and after
     wandering about Europe for two years, by writing to Secretary
     Dundas, and presenting a copy of his book, which, it was judged,
     would answer certain purposes of the ministry, the prosecution
     against him was stopped, the Professor returned in triumph to his
     country, and now lives upon a handsome pension, instead of
     suffering the fate of his predecessor Dodd."[2]

Payson goes on to quote a writer in The National Intelligencer of January 1801, who styles
himself a "friend to truth" and speaks of Professor Robison as "a man distinguished by abject
dependence on a party, by the base crimes of forgery and adultery, and by frequent paroxysms
of insanity." Mounier goes further still, and in his pamphlet De l'influence attribuée aux
Philosophes, ... Francs-maçons et ... Illuminés, etc., inspired by the Illuminatus Bode, quotes
a story that Robison suffered from a form of insanity which consisted in his believing that
the posterior portion of his body was made of glass![3]

In support of all this farrago of nonsense there is of course no foundation of truth; Robison
was a well-known savant who lived sane and respected to the end of his days. On his death Watt
wrote of him: "He was a man of the clearest head and the most science of anybody I have ever
known."[4] John Playfair, in a paper read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1815, whilst
criticizing his Proofs of a Conspiracy--though at the same time admitting he had himself never
had access to the documents Robison had consulted!--paid the following tribute to his character
and erudition:

     His range in science was most extensive; he was familiar with the
     whole circle of the accurate sciences.... Nothing can add to the
     esteem which they [i.e. "those who were personally acquainted with
     him"] felt for his talents and worth or to the respect in which
     they now hold his memory.[5]

Nevertheless, the lies circulated against both Robison and Barruel were not without effect.
Thirteen years later we find another American, this time a Freemason, confessing "with shame
and grief and indignation" that he had been carried away by "the flood of vituperation poured
upon Barruel and Robison during the past thirty years," that the title pages of their works
"were fearful to him," and that although "wishing calmly and candidly to investigate the character
of Freemasonry he refused for months to open their books." Yet when in 1827 he read them for
the first time he was astonished to find that they showed "a manifest tendency towards Freemasonry."
Both Barruel and Robison, he now realized, were "learned men, candid men, lovers of their country,
who had a reverence for truth and religion. They give the reasons for their opinions, they
quote their authorities, naming the author and page, like honest people; they both had a wish
to rescue British Masonry from the condemnation and fellowship of continental Masonry and appear
to be sincerely actuated by the desire of doing good by giving their labours to the public."[6]

That the author was right here in his description of Barruel's attitude to Freemasonry is shown
by Barruel's own words on the subject:

     England above all is full of those upright men, excellent citizens,
     men of every kind and in every condition of life, who count it an
     honour to be masons, and who are distinguished from other men only
     by ties which seem to strengthen those of benevolence and fraternal
     charity. It is not the fear of offending a nation amongst which I
     have found a refuge which prompts me to make this exception.
     Gratitude would prevail with me over all such terrors and I should
     say in the midst of London: "England is lost, she will not escape
     the French Revolution if the masonic lodges resemble those I have
     to unveil. I would even say more: government and all Christianity
     would long ago have been lost in England if one could suppose its
     Freemasons to be initiated into the last mysteries of the sect."[7]

In another passage Barruel observes that Masonry in England is "a society composed of good
citizens in general whose chief object is to help each other by principles of equality which
for them is nothing else but universal fraternity."[8] And again: "Let us admire it [the wisdom
of England] for having known how to make a real source of benefit to the State out of those
same mysteries which elsewhere conceal a profound conspiracy against the State and religion."[9]

The only criticism British Freemasons may make on this verdict is that Barruel regards Masonry
as a system which originally contained an element of danger that has been eliminated in England
whilst they regard it as a system originally innocuous into which a dangerous element was inserted
on the Continent. Thus according to the former conception Freemasonry might be compared to
one of the brass shell-cases brought back from the battle-fields of France and converted into
a flower-pot holder, whilst according to the latter it resembles an innocent brass flower-pot
holder which has been used as a receptacle for explosives. The fact is that, as I shall endeavour
to show in the course of this book, Freemasonry being a composite system there is some justification
for both these theories. In either case it will be seen that Continental Masonry alone stands
condemned.

The plan of representing Robison and Barruel as the enemies of British Masonry can therefore
only be regarded as a method for discrediting them in the eyes of British Freemasons, and consequently
for bringing the latter over to the side of their antagonists. Exactly the same method of attack
has been directed against those of us who during the last few years have attempted to warn
the world of the secret forces working to destroy civilization; in my own case even the plan
of accusing me of having attacked British Masonry has been adopted without the shadow of a
foundation. From the beginning I have always differentiated between British and Grand Orient
Masonry, and have numbered high British Masons amongst my friends.

But what is the main charge brought against us? Like Robison and Barruel, we are accused of
raising a false alarm, of creating a bogey, or of being the victims of an obsession. Up to
a point this is comprehensible. Whilst on the Continent the importance of secret societies
is taken as a matter of course and the libraries of foreign capitals teem with books on the
question, people in this country really imagine that secret societies are things of the past--articles
to this effect appeared quite recently in two leading London newspapers--whilst practically
nothing of any value has been written about them in our language during the last hundred years.
Hence ideas that are commonplaces on the Continent here appear sensational and extravagant.
The mind of the Englishman does not readily accept anything he cannot see or even sometimes
anything he can see which is unprecedented in his experience, so that like the West American
farmer, confronted for the first time by the sight of a giraffe, his impulse is to cry out
angrily: "I don't believe it!"

But whilst making all allowance for honest ignorance and incredulity, it is impossible not
to recognize a certain method in the manner in which the cry of "obsession" or "bogey" is raised.
For it will be noticed that people who specialize on other subjects are not described as "obsessed."
We did not hear, for example, that the late Professor Einstein had Relativity "on the brain"
because he wrote and lectured exclusively on this question, nor do we hear it suggested that
Mr. Howard Carter is obsessed with the idea of Tutankhamen and that it would be well if he
were to set out for the South Pole by way of a change. Again, all those who warn the world
concerning eventualities they conceive to be a danger are not accused of creating bogeys. Thus
although Lord Roberts was denounced as a scaremonger for urging the country to prepare for
defence against a design openly avowed by Germany both in speech and print, and in 1921 the
Duke of Northumberland was declared the victim of a delusion for believing in the existence
of a plot against the British Empire which had been proclaimed in a thousand revolutionary
harangues and pamphlets. People who, without bothering to produce a shred of documentary evidence,
had sounded the alarm on the menace of "French Imperialism" and asserted that our former Allies
were engaged in building a vast fleet of aeroplanes in order to attack our coasts. They were
not held to be either scaremongers or insane. On the contrary, although some of these same
people were proved by events to have been completely wrong in their prognostications at the
beginning of the Great War, they are still regarded as oracles and sometimes even described
as "thinking for half Europe."

Another instance of this kind may be cited in the case of Mr. John Spargo, author of a small
book entitled The Jew and American Ideals. On page 37 of this work Mr. Spargo in refuting the
accusations brought against the Jews observes:

     Belief in widespread conspiracies directed against individuals or
     the state is probably the commonest form assumed by the human mind
     when it loses its balance and its sense of proportion.

Yet on page 6 Mr. Spargo declares that when visiting this country in September and October 1920:

     I found in England great nation-wide organizations, obviously well
     financed, devoted to the sinister purpose of creating anti-Jewish
     feeling and sentiment. I found special articles in influential
     newspapers devoted to the same evil purpose. I found at at least
     one journal, obviously well financed again, exclusively devoted to
     the fostering of suspicion, fear, and hatred against the Jew ...
     and in the bookstores I discovered a whole library of books devoted
     to the same end.

It will be seen then that a belief in widespread conspiracies is not always to be regarded
as a sign of loss of mental balance, even when these conspiracies remain completely invisible
to the general public. For those of us who were in London during the period of Mr. Spargo's
visit saw nothing of the things he here describes. Where, we ask, were these "great nation-wide
organizations" striving to create anti-Jewish sentiments? What were their names? By whom were
they led? It is true, however, that there were nation-wide organizations in existence here
at this date instituted for the purpose of combating Bolshevism. Is anti-Bolshevism then synonymous
with "anti-Semitism"?[10] This is the conclusion to which one is inevitably led. For it will
be noticed that anyone who attempts to expose the secret forces behind the revolutionary movement,
whether he mentions Jews in this connexion or even if he goes out of his way to exonerate them,
will incur the hostility of the Jews and their friends and will still be described as "anti-Semite."
The realization of this fact has led me particularly to include the Jews in the study of secret
societies.

