  WASHINGTON, GEORGE                                           4
  Waters, Josiah                                              29
  Watson, Mr.                                                 21
  Webb, Joseph, Jr.                                           71
  Whipple, Joseph                                             90
  Whitefield, Rev. George                                 57, 58
  Whitmore, Major-General                                     66
  Wickham, Captain                                            56
  Winter, Joshua                                              80
  Willard, Joseph                                         75, 78
  Williams, Jonathan                                          70
  Wolfe, General James                                    25, 27
  Wood, William                                               13

THE DAYS OF THE SPINNING-WHEEL

IN NEW ENGLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITHIN the last few years many young ladies have searched country houses or ransacked old garrets
to find spinning-wheels, which, like old chairs, tall clocks, and warming-pans, have now become
objects of curiosity and interest to those who take a fancy to antique articles. It has become
fashionable to have these things to adorn our Queen Anne houses. And brass andirons and shovels
and tongs have come into request, so that we may enjoy the luxury of an open wood fire, which,
to our mind, is one of the most cheerful things in this world. Some one has remarked "that
to be well-dressed gives a feeling of satisfaction that religion fails to give;" but to us,
to sit before a blazing wood fire on a dull, cold evening, gives a feeling of comfort and delight
which surpasses anything we know of. What charming companionship in a wood fire! Better than
the company of uncongenial persons.

    "Old wood to burn,"
    "Old books to read:"

these are enough; we will leave out the "old wine to drink."

      "This bright wood fire,
    So like to that which warmed and lit
    My youthful days, how doth it flit
      Back on the periods nigher!
    Re-lighting and re-warming with its glow
    The bright scenes of my youth,--all gone out now."

Glance backward to some years before the Revolution, and we shall find a spinning-wheel in
every house, and then, probably, in constant use. Now its place in our homes is taken by the
piano. This instrument had not then come into use. Something resembling it,--namely, the spinnet
or the harpsichord,--was to be found in some instances; but it was by no means common to find
these, for there was but little knowledge of music in America in those days. A hundred years
ago, only one or two churches in Boston had organs, and the public taste, except in rare cases,
was decidedly against music of all kinds, especially sacred music. To show how this was, we
have heard an old lady say that when she was young, some eighty years or so ago, "musicians,
for the most part, were not thought much of" by the most cultivated people of that time; and
she assured me that even at a later date, members of military bands, as well as organists and
violinists (then called fiddlers) were too often low characters and men much addicted to drinking.
The times were too hard for the New England people of those days to cultivate music or indulge
in entertainments of any kind except "going to meeting." There was but little money in circulation,
and that was almost always in the form of a depreciated currency. Gold and silver were scarce
articles, and a large proportion of the necessities of life and luxuries--if luxuries they
could be called; they would hardly be so considered by us--were imported from England or elsewhere.
The leading occupations were farming, fishing, making New England rum, importing rum, sugar,
and molasses from the West Indies, and dry goods from England. The common people were poor
enough, in comparison with the condition of the same class at the present time, when they make
as good an appearance as the wealthy did a hundred years ago. It would be safe to say that
they have more comforts and conveniences in their homes to-day than the more prosperous had
at the time of the Revolution. The humorist, John Phenix, said that "Gen'l Washington never
saw a steamboat, nor rode in a railroad car;" and possibly his house was not heated by steam,
or furnished with pipes for hot and cold water. Nor did he ever use gas, or the telegraph or
telephone. Whether the people who lived then would have shown the extravagance which characterizes
our time if they had possessed the means, is a question not easily to be answered; but it is
certain they were more frugal than we are, if not more industrious. The Revolution left the
masses of the people in rather a destitute condition, and they were forced to be economical.
Their habits were so entirely different from modern habits that it would exceed our limits
to undertake to draw a careful comparison. It is said that the people of those days bewailed
the degeneracy of the times, and spoke of the industry and frugality of earlier periods.

                                  NORWICH, May 6, 1784.

    A correspondent observes, that the extravagances of the
    present day are fully demonstrated in the broadcloth coats
    and silk gowns,--the powder and feathers, the ruffles and
    cardinals, the silk stockings and feet trappings--In the
    feasts, the dancing parties and select companies--and what
    is the more melancholy, all orders and degrees help form the
    circle.--Where is the simplicity in dress and manners;
    temperance in meats and drinks, which formed the virtuous
    characters of our illustrious ancestors?--O! the degeneracy
    of the times!

                                               Salem Gazette.

Just as our ancestors did, as Macaulay says, in the days of Charles the First; they thought
they were not as good as their ancestors had been. This habit of looking back to a time so
remote that "distance lends enchantment to the view," seems to be almost universal. It is this
feeling of reverence for the old that makes it so interesting to us, and leads us to look at
things of the past poetically rather than practically; although it is true that sometimes the
interest taken in inconvenient and uncomfortable articles arises rather from their age than
from anything else. But oftentimes the very simplicity, solidity, and strength of old furniture,
for instance, is charming, in contrast with the elaborate, unmeaning carvings and flimsy character
of more modern productions. We are beginning to see how much more sensible the Chippendale
and other styles commended by Eastlake and some other writers on household art are to much
that has been produced in later times. Yet we must allow that prejudice and fashion go a great
way in determining our likes and dislikes, in furniture as well as in dress and other things.
Very likely in a few years we shall tire of the Queen Anne houses and furniture, and hard floors,
and have a surfeit of Anglomania, especially if we carry the taste too far. In this country,
as Emerson says, "Every rider drives too fast." It is hard to be simple and slow. We must build
fast, eat fast, and live fast. But Emerson says again, "Nature has no respect for haste." Herbert
Spencer has given us in a kindly spirit some hints on this score which it would be well to
heed. But we are wandering from our immediate subject. Our desire is to illustrate, in the
very words of the people of the period we refer to, the views they entertained of economy and
industry, and how they carried them out. We will begin, then, in the year 1759, with a curious
letter to the "Boston Gazette" of June 11 of that year, in which the writer gives some account
of the cost of provisions at that period.

    To the Trading and Farming People of New England.

        GENTLEMEN.

    I Have been coming and going among you since the Year 1745.
    I am now once more on Service in this Part of the World, and
    not a little surprized at the Alteration in the Value of
    your Provisions, since my Knowledge of your Country. When I
    first came among you, I could have bought a Pound of Beef
    for a Penny, a Goose for a Shilling, a Fowl for three Pence,
    and so in Proportion. It now is, I think, four Pence
    Sterling for a Pound of Beef, eighteen Pence Sterling for a
    Fowl, and three Shillings for a Goose. Pray Gentlemen, when
    that is the Price at Boston, what must we pay for it at
    Louisbourg, after it has gone thro' the Hands of many
    different People that are to live out of it. Our Pay is not
    increased.

    I would say nothing to influence you to sell cheaper, from
    Motives disinterested or publick spirited, as that weighs
    but little with the Generality of Mankind. But consider your
    own Interest, the War can last but little longer: This
    Campaign, in all Probability, will put an End to it, then
    where will you find a Market for your Stock you raise.
    Consider with the Fall of this present Summer, its pretty
    certain the Soldiers and Seamen at present employed for your
    Defence, will be called to Britain: Take the Market while it
    holds Gentlemen. We have Beef found us, that is to say, the
    Publick purchases it; let us now and then taste of your
    Veal, Mutton and Fowls for our Money, and we will spend all
    among you; and we expect both Interest and Inclination will
    prompt you to give us an ample Supply.

    I am your Friend, An ANTI-CANADIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the same paper is an auction advertisement, showing how they mixed the different kinds of
property.

    TO be Sold by publick Vendue on Scarlet's Wharff, at the
    North End of Boston, THIS AFTERNOON, at IV o'Clock, Sundry
    Hogsheads of Sugar, four likely Negro Men, and a Parcel of
    old Copper; Prize Goods lately brought into this Port.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 19th November we are shown how remittances were made in those days.

    We hear that the Treasurer of this Province has received a
    Bill of Lading for two Boxes of Portugal Gold, ship'd by Mr.
    Agent Bollan, on board the Mercury Man of War, amounting to
    Twenty thousand six hundred and eighty Pounds, seventeen
    shillings and six Pence; being Part of the £27,000 granted
    by Parliament in 1757, to this Province, to recompence them
    for the Expences they were at in the Expedition in
    1756.--Said Ship may be daily expected.

       *       *       *       *       *

And here is a description of a vessel of the time.

    Mr. James Hudson came Passenger in the Vessel that arriv'd
    at Cape-Ann, mention'd in our last, which saw a Wreck in
    Lat: 36, he says, she was a Frigate built Ship of about 200
    Tons burthen, had a Lion Head painted yellow, a short Topgal
    on Quarter-Deck, a small Tafrail painted yellow, Quarters
    and Stern painted blue, had a large Trophies painted on her
    Stern and gilt, full of Water, and no living Person on
    board.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 5th February in that year, this was the way they advertised for recruits for the Government
service, offering among other inducements, "a Crown to drink the King's health."

    ALL able-bodied fit Men that have an Inclination to serve
    His Majesty King GEORGE the Second, in the first Independent
    Company of Rangers, now in the Province of Nova-Scotia,
    commanded by Joseph Gorham, Esq; shall, on inlisting,
    receive good Pay and Cloathing, a large Bounty, with a Crown
    to drink the King's Health. And by repairing to the Sign of
    the Bear in King-Street, Boston, and to Mr. Cornelius
    Crocker, Innholder in Barnstable, may hear the particular
    Encouragement, and many Advantages accruing to a Soldier, in
    the Course of the Duty of that Company, too long to insert
    here; and further, may depend on being discharged at the
    Expiration of the Time entertained for, and to have every
    other Encouragement punctually compli'd with.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a meeting of "very agreeable Ladies" in the interests of economy about the same time.

    In a large Circle of very agreeable Ladies in this Town, it
    was unanimously agreed to lay aside the Use of Ribbons, &c.
    &c. &c. for which there has been so great a Resort to
    Milliners in times past----It is hoped that this Resolution
    will be followed by others of the Sex throughout the
    Province--How agreeable will they appear in their native
    Beauty, stript of these Ornaments, from the prevailing
    Motive of Love to their Country.

    We must after all our Efforts, depend greatly upon the
    Female Sex for the Introduction of Oeconomy among us: And
    those who have the Pleasure of an Acquaintance with them,
    assure us that their utmost Aid will not be wanting.

    So strong is the Disposition of the Inhabitants of this Town
    to take off the Manufactures that come from the Country
    Towns, especially Womens and Childrens Winter Apparel, that
    nothing is wanting but an Advertisement where they may be
    had in Town, which will be taken in, and published by the
    Printers of this Paper Gratis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Labrador tea began to take the place of green and bohea. It
    soon became into such repute that quantities were sent to
    France, where I have heard say, it was soon in such
    demand, as alarmed the French East-India company, and
    procured an ordinance prohibiting the importation of any
    more on the pain of death. So little do some politicians
    regard the health or even the life of man, when either of
    them appear to be incompatible with their particular
    interests, views and projects. Immense quantities may be found on the mountains
    near the great lakes.

    Nothing short of the highest degree of infatuation and
    madness could ever have prevailed with us to introduce
    unwholesome Exoticks. The voice of reason crys louder than
    ever for their perpetual banishment; and the further use of
    them must be accounted for but by the force of invincible
    prejudice. This indeed sometimes leads to a preference of
    rank poison if far fetched and dear bought, to the most
    salubrious draught at hand, with little pains or cost, tho'
    of inestimable value.

                                                A TEA-DRINKER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following items, Sept. 17, 1759, throw some light on the state of the country in some parts
of New England, where, even if the "Lyons" once seen at Cape Ann by Wood had departed, there
were still some bears, one having been seen within two miles of Boston.

    We hear from Brentwood, in New Hampshire Government, as two
    Children were gathering Beans in a Field, a large Bear came
    upon them and kill'd them both;--The Bear was pursued, but
    could not be found.

    Also from Chester, in the same Government, that a few Days
    after the above, another Bear came behind a Woman as she was
    walking along, not far from her House, and tore off the hind
    Part of her Gown, which he carried off in his Mouth;--but
    the Woman happily made her Escape from him.

    And from Kingston, in the County of Worcester, we hear, that
    on Tuesday last as Mr. Stephen Clark of that Town was out a
    Hunting after Bears, his Next Door Neighbour went out into
    his Cornfield just at Evening, and seeing something move
    which he thought was one of those Animals, shott at it, and
    upon his coming to the place, found it to be Mr. Clark as
    above-mention'd, shot thro' his Head, to his great surprize.

    We hear from Kittery, that in about 13 Days past, seven
    large Bears have been kill'd within a Mile of the Rev. Mr.
    Rogers's Meeting House.

    It is said some of these voracious Animals have ventured
    down even to some of the Seaport Towns at the
    Eastward.--Two of them were seen at Medford last Week; and
    one of them has been lately killed within two Miles of this
    Metropolis. Some have weighed above 300 lb. Wt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice to Students of Harvard College:

    THIS is to give Notice to the Candidates for their second
    Degree at Harvard-College this Year, that they attend at
    the College by the 11th Day of July next, and if any shall
    neglect their Attendance accordingly, without sufficient
    Reason therefor, they may not expect their said Degrees this
    Year.                              Cambridge, June 9, 1759.

                                      EDWARD HOLYOKE, President.

    NOTICE is hereby given to all who desire an Admission into
    Harvard College this Year, That the President and Tutors
    have determined to attend the Business of Examination on
    Friday and Saturday the 19th and 20th Days of July next.

    Cambridge, June 9, 1759. EDWARD HOLYOKE, Pres.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we remember the present condition of the city of Lynn, it is interesting to note how that
place stood in reference to the shoe industry in the year 1762. The "Boston Gazette" of November
2 says:--

    We are confidently told, that in the Town of Lynn upwards of
    Forty Thousand Pair of Womens Shoes have been made in one
    Year, equal in Goodness to any imported from Abroad--It is
    thought that in a few Years they will be supply'd with
    Callimanco and other Stuffs manufactured in this Province.

       *       *       *       *       *

The statement has often been made by connoisseurs that there was no mahogany furniture in America
before the Revolution; but this is a mistake, for here, in the "Boston Gazette" of Feb. 5,
1759, is an advertisement announcing the sale of a "Beautiful Mehogany Desk and Book-Case."
Probably this was an early specimen of such kind of work, as mahogany, it is said, was not
introduced into Europe long before this time.

                To be Sold by Moses Deshon,

    On Dock-Square, Next Wednesday, at V o'Clock, in the
    Afternoon, and Friday Evening following.

    A Handsome 8 Day Clock, a Brass Grate, Shovel Fire, Tongs,
    Tables, and a Variety of other Articles; a fine Assortment
    of English, Scotch, and French Goods. N.B. A beautiful
    Mehogany Desk and Book-Case; and a Quantity of Cannon-Powder
    to dispose of at private Sale.

       *       *       *       *       *

A curious advertisement of a runaway convict in Maryland appears in the same paper, Sept. 15,
1759:--

                  Fifteen Pistoles Reward.

    RAN-AWAY from the Subscriber, (living at ANNAPOLIS, in
    MARYLAND) in June last, a Convict Servant Man, named
    Thomas Read, alias Cutbert, about 25 or 30 Years of Age,
    5 Feet, 4 Inches high, well set, grey Eyes, large Nose, and
    had short brown curl'd Hair. He is supposed to be in
    Boston, or some of the Northern Governments; is a
    Jeweller, and Motto-Ring-Engraver, and is an artful
    talkative pert Fellow;--can write pretty well, and has
    doubtless help'd himself to a Discharge, Pass, or any other
    Writing to deceive, and suit his Purpose; His Apparel is
    probably genteel, as he had Money with him, a Watch in his
    Pocket, and a large Stock of Pride; By what Name he now goes
    is uncertain, as he has Impudence eno to pick & chuse any he
    should think proper.

    Whoever takes the said Convict Servant, and returns him to
    his Master, shall have FIFTEEN PISTOLES Reward, and
    reasonable Charges paid, by

    Annapolis, September 15, 1759.                  JOHN INCH.

    Boston, Printed and Sold by EDES & GILL. 1759.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the year 1762 there appears to have been quite a stir in reference to economy and home productions,
and doubtless the spinning-wheels were constantly in use. In the "Boston Gazette," November
2, is a very curious letter of Henry Flynt, a noted teacher, addressed to the ladies of North
America.

                To the LADIES of NORTH AMERICA.

    LADIES,

    I AM one of those who think it not only high Time but of
    the last Importance, that you should be publickly addressed:
    And of the many ingenious Pens, which in the Course of a few
    Years have informed and enlightened this Country, I have
    often wished that at least some one of them had been more
    particularly devoted to your Service. This would have
    agreeably prevented me in an attempt to which I find myself
    in all Respects but too unequal. Yet relying on your good
    Sense and Candour, I venture to lay at your Feet a few
    well-intended Sentiments, which tho' in a plain homespun
    Garb, I hope will not offend. I am convinced that at this
    present it is not only in your Inclination and Will, but
    also in your Power, to effect more in favour of your
    Country, than an Army of an Hundred Thousand Men; and indeed
    more than all the armed Men on this vast Continent.--Can a
    Woman forget her Ornaments? Yes I know she can. Deborah
    once judged Israel, and some think it was never judged
    much better afterwards. But what tho't Deborah or Jael
    of their Ornaments, when the one was contriving, & the
    other driving the Nail that would go? What tho't beautiful
    Esther of her Ornaments, when those of her Kindred &
    Houshold were in immediate and imminent Danger, by the
    Decree treacherously obtained by Haman, from the mouth of
    her beloved and almost adored Lord Ahasuerus the Great?
    What tho't Judith of her Ornaments, when she was severing
    the Head of Holofernes from his Body, or while flying with
    the Prize to the Relief of her despairing Friends? The Time
    would fail me, were I to recount the wondrous Deeds and
    mighty Atchievements of renowned and honorable Women in all
    Ages.

    I have but alluded to a few Instances, among many of divine
    Heroism in your Sex, which hath often saved a Country, when
    the dull ploding Wisdom of man has been totally at a Plunge.
    How near we are to such a Crisis, is left to the
    Conjecture of others. It would be a little out of Nature to
    expect the Birth and Exploits of Heroines to take Place
    before those of Heroes. I believe we shall be furnished with
    both in their Order, as Occasion may require. All I think at
    present that can be reasonably expected or desired of you,
    is to consent to lay aside all superfluous Ornaments for a
    Season--after which they shall be surely returned to you
    again with Interests.--You shall be cloathed in Purple, and
    Scarlet, and Fine Linnen of our own, and with other glorious
    Apparel; which, if possible, shall add a Lustre to your
    native Charms.

                                                    HENRY FLYNT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Newport, R.I., has the reputation of having been engaged in the slave-trade before the Revolution;
and the following item, in the "Boston Gazette," June 30, 1762, noticing without comment the
arrival of a Guinea trader there, would seem to show it to have been not an uncommon occurrence.

