"It is about three miles above here," the guide spoke, "on the last of the Dead River Ponds,
where we shall find our first camping ground. I want you to look at it."

"And we'll be gone days and days."

"Goody! goody!" called Betty, clapping her hands. "And we'll sleep out-of-doors, cook out-of-doors,
and do everything out-of-doors."

Every one smiled with her, for there was not a person there who was not looking forward with
happiness to this trip.

"Before we start on I'll smoke my pipe," said the old man.

"Then, please, sir, won't you tell us something else?" asked Betty.

"Why, I have nothing left in my head, you child."

"Oh, please, sir, you said there was another cousin called the caddis-worm."

"So I did," said the old man. "Fetch me that stone, Jack." He pointed to a stone lying in the
water. Jack brought it to him, and he broke something off from it. "What's that?"

"That's a stick," answered Betty.

"No, that's not a stick, that's a caddis-worm. This little fellow, unlike some spoiled children
I know, has to find its own dinner, change its own clothes, tuck itself into bed, and build
its own house. And it is brighter than some children I know," said the old man, looking kindly
at Peter. "The caddis-worm builds itself different kinds of houses. Some of the houses are
shaped like the horns you blow on the Fourth of July, and one kind of house is made of the
finest sand, fastened together with bands of finest silk, which the caddis spins. Our caddis-worm
has patience," said the old man, shaking his head and looking at Jimmie--"patience, plenty
of patience." He puffed away at his pipe for a few seconds. "Some build rougher houses, choosing
small pebbles instead of sand. Of these it builds a long tube. Others make a little green summer
cottage with twigs, grasses, and pine-needles, from which they build an attractive bungalow
by laying down four pieces and crossing the ends like this: # These cottages are built about
an inch long, and in them the young caddis-worms have a cool and cosey summer home. Often these
little houses have silken hangings inside. The little owners fasten the hooks at the ends of
their bodies to these and moor themselves securely."

"What do you call it a worm for?" asked Mrs. Reece.

"Well, it looks a little like a worm. It has a long, slender body, but it has six jointed legs,
which real worms don't have. See this fellow!" Ben Gile pulled the worm out of its case.

"Oh, see! part of the body is so pale and soft!"

"That, child, is because it is always covered by the little house. The front end and the legs,
however, are darker. That's sunburn, I suppose."

"When young Master Caddis-Worm goes out for a swim or a walk it pushes its six legs out-of-doors,
and walks along, carrying its house with it. Very convenient, you see! No doors to lock! And
if it gets tired it does not have to walk home; it just walks in and goes to sleep under a
nice, smooth stone. Some roam about and some stay at home. These creatures are pretty much
like human beings in their ways.

"One of the young caddis-worms prefers fishing to walking, like some other young fellows I
know. On a stone near its house it spins a fine web, turned up-stream, so that any tender little
insects floating down-stream get lodged in it. An easy way to get your dinner--just to go to
a net and eat."

The guide paused for a long time, clouds of smoke circling about his white beard and white
hair. The children thought he would never go on. "I've had something on my mind for days,"
he said, "and I'll speak of it now. The boy or girl who learns most about the ants before September
15th shall win a prize. This prize is to be a magnifying-glass, a book of colored plates of
the insects, very beautiful and very big, and a five-dollar gold piece."

"A prize, a prize!" shouted the children, jumping madly about, while Mrs. Reece and the guide
smiled at each other.

"Now we've had our dinner, our rest, our pipe of peace, a plan for a prize, and we must push
on for the camping-ground. Get the canoes ready."

And, with laughter and talking, the canoes were off up the river again.

X

A NAGGING FAMILY

"Do you know of a family around here whom no one likes?" asked Ben Gile.

The lanterns were burning brightly out on the lawn of Turtle Lodge, and Mrs. Reece had just
stopped playing so that the children might rest from dancing. All the lanterns moved gently
to and fro on the piazza; the children were running about, and everybody seemed to be having
a beautiful and breathless time. "Do you know of a family around here," called the guide, "whom
nobody likes?"

"I do," replied Mrs. Reece, laughing and slapping the side of her face. "They are just like
some people, nagging, annoying, and numerous."

"Do any children here," called Ben Gile, for the third time, "know of a family nobody likes?
For the child who guesses I have a pocket-knife."

"The Smiths!" shouted Peter. "My father says Mrs. Smith is always quarrelling with the choir."

"Hush!" said Mrs. Reece, seeing danger ahead. "Ben means a family right here on the piazza."

The children looked at one another, and then Jack turned shrewdly to the guide. "I guess, sir,
it is mosquitoes and flies."

"Good boy, and here's the knife."

Jack thought he had never seen such a wonderful knife. It had three blades, a corkscrew, a
file, and a pair of scissors, and to this day Jack has that knife.

"Come," said Mrs. Reece, "let us all sit down for a few minutes while Lizzie is getting supper
ready inside."

"How many wings," asked Mrs. Reece, "has a fly?"

"Four," answered Jimmie.

"No," corrected the guide; "a real fly has only two wings. In the place of the second pair
they have queer little knobbed rods which are called balancers--something like the out-riggers
on your scull, Jim. These steer and steady the fly's body."

"What makes a fly bite?" asked Hope.

"They do not bite, child. A beetle or a grasshopper can really bite, because beetles and grasshoppers
have heavy, horny jaws, toothed on the edge, with which to do it. But a fly has fine, sharp-pointed
jaws. With these needlelike jaws they pierce a hole in the skin, then with a tiny sucking-beak,
made by the rolled lower lip, they draw up the blood through this opening."

"I wonder whether any little girl here knows why flies should not be allowed in the house?"
asked Mrs. Reece. No little girl did know anything except that their mothers were always driving
flies out, and that these creatures buzzed and were a nuisance. "Do tell them," said Mrs. Reece.

"Well," said the guide, "the fly is such a little acrobat it can crawl up the steepest and
most slippery wall and walk upside down or right side up with the greatest ease. Perhaps some
day you can make a fly keep still long enough so that you can look at its foot. At the end
of the foot are two little round pads thickly covered with downy hair. On each side are two
sharp claws and many stiff, clinging hairs. With this flattened foot it can go wherever it wishes.

"But this same little foot is the chief reason why a fly should never be allowed in the house,
for flies crawl into all sorts of dirty places, and the fine hairs catch and hold the dirt.
When the fly lights on us or on the table, some of the pieces of dirt are shaken off."

"But they are so hard to catch," said Betty; "it takes Lizzie forever and forever to get them
out of the dining-room in the morning."

"I know why they are hard to catch," added Jack, "for I've looked at a dead fly. They have
such big eyes, like lighthouses, they can see all around."

"Yes," said Ben Gile; "there is no such thing as creeping up on a fly unawares. Flies are dirty
creatures," continued the old man, "and the time is not very far distant when people will make
war on them just as they do on mosquitoes. Mrs. Fly lays her eggs in unclean places, and as
many as a hundred eggs at a time. These eggs hatch out quickly. It takes only twenty-one days
to make a chicken out of an egg, but to make a baby fly it takes only a few hours, and ugly
babies they are--little white maggots, or worms, that live and feed and grow rapidly in dirty
places. Within six days the maggot becomes a tiny, dark-brown pupa, and after five days the
pupa hatches out into a grown-up fly."

A dozen little girls at the party made up their minds promptly that after this evening they,
at least, would make war on flies.

"And aren't flies of any use?" asked Betty.

"There is one little fly, Mrs. Tachina-Fly, who is of some use. She is a cousin of the house-fly.
She is of use because she chooses a queer place to lay her eggs--on the back of a young caterpillar.
After these caterpillars grow and shut themselves up into a cocoon to change into a butterfly
the little fly eggs hatch out into maggots. Of course they are hungry--all babies are; and
finding the nice, fat caterpillar in the round house, like dutiful babies they eat what is
set before them until the fat, tender caterpillar is eaten up. After they are satisfied they
lie still in their brown skins and change into grown-up tachina-flies, and at last out come
a lot of busy, buzzing, bothersome flies. It is rather hard on the caterpillar. But when we
think what harmful, greedy things most caterpillars are, perhaps it is good that there are
tachina-flies to eat them. Is it time for supper yet?"

"No, not yet," replied Mrs. Reece. "Do tell the children something about mosquitoes."

"If I had to choose between Mr. and Mrs. Mosquito, I should take Mr. Mosquito, for he neither
bites nor buzzes, but attends strictly to his own business. Perhaps he thinks Mrs. Mosquito's
voice pretty. Perhaps he likes to hear about her adventures. But most people do not, for they
think Mrs. Mosquito a busybody, always going where she is not wished, always breaking up conversations,
and always coming back after she has been plainly told that she is not wanted. Yet her singing
is music in the ears of her husband. Perhaps if we had long, slender antennæ, all covered with
hairs, like his, we, too, might like her song. When she sings these hairs begin to tremble,
to vibrate, and a little nerve in the antennæ changes this trembling to sound.

"In every way Mr. Mosquito seems a more pleasant body. He eats very little, and contents himself
with nectar. But she, knowing that excitement makes the blood flow faster, and being a hearty
eater, begins her song gently at first, then louder and louder, nearer and nearer. Finally,
with her long, slender, sharp stylets, she makes a hole in your cheek or your arm, pushes in
her sucking-beak, and pumps up the blood. And there she sucks and sucks until her stomach is
full or she is brushed off or killed."

"Where do mosquitoes lay eggs?" asked Jack, who was certain that everything in the insect world
did lay eggs, as indeed everything does.

"In the water; any puddle will do. When the eggs hatch out they are funny-looking fellows,
long, tapering bodies with a big head end. At the other end are two little prongs. This baby,
like some other babies, is never quiet, but squirms and wriggles so that it is called a wriggler.
Upon its thick head are two little tufts of hair. These it waves every moment, so that all
the food which comes its way will go into its hungry little mouth. One of the prongs at the
other end of the body is an air-tube, so that the baby mosquito has to stand on its head to
breathe. It hangs head downward, and holds its air-tube above the surface of the water.

"When people pour kerosene upon the water the wriggler cannot get any air to breathe, and therefore
dies. Within a few days the wriggler changes its skin three times; after the third change it
looks very different, and is called a pupa. Now, instead of having an air-tube at the end,
it has two on the back of the thorax. At the tail end are two flaps to help it swim. Even the
pupa is never still a minute, but holds its air-tubes above the water's surface.

"When anything comes to disturb it, it uses its flaps and swims safely to the bottom of the
pool. At the end of two days out of the pupa skin comes a grown-up mosquito. If it is a Mrs.
Mosquito, she promptly begins to bite people and to carry about fevers or malaria from person
to person. The bite of a mosquito may sometimes be as dangerous as the bite of a rattlesnake."

The children had been slapping the mosquitoes buzzing about on the piazza. "And now," said
the guide, "before we go into supper, I will tell you a real and a true story. Mosquitoes sometimes
carry sickness from one person to another until it spreads throughout a large city. We didn't
realize how dangerous mosquitoes were till a short time ago. People had malaria, and were very
ill with it. In some countries many died. Every one thought, however, that the malaria came
in some mysterious way from the mists of the low-lying swamps and marshes. But one day some
one happened to think it might not be in the marshes, after all; rather that it might be a
certain little two-winged insect with a short, piercing instrument, which spent its babyhood
days in these same marshes.

"And so two English doctors determined to find out the truth of the matter. In the faraway
land of Italy was a place where thousands of people were suffering from this disease. There
these doctors went and built a comfortable little house in the very worst place they could
find. They were careful to screen every door and window, and to leave not a crack for a mosquito
to crawl in.

"There they lived, always going into the house at sundown, shutting all the screen doors, but
allowing the damp night air to pour in. It was this night air which every one supposed gave
people malaria. But the two physicians in the snug little house, free from mosquitoes, kept
well, strong, and happy, although the people outside in the other houses were very ill and
suffering with chills and fever.

"You see, these little Anopheles, for that is their name, bite some one ill with malaria. Perhaps
the next person they stab with their sharp needle is well. In this way they leave some of the
poisoned blood in the wound. There is another illness which is a hundred times worse than malaria.
This is called yellow fever. In some countries thousands of people died from this every year,
and doctors did not know just how it was carried from place to place.

"Our Government appointed a commission to study the matter. Dr. Walter Reed, a surgeon of the
United States Army, with three assistants, went to Havana and built a house, carefully screened,
just like that of the English physicians in Italy. People thought that the fever was carried
in the clothes and on the sheets of those who were ill. To prove that this was not so, these
men wore the clothes of sick people, and even slept on the sheets taken from the sickbed. They
did this disagreeable thing for twenty days, keeping the little house very warm, and shutting
out the fresh air and sunshine. But in spite of all these things the men continued well and strong.

"They wanted to prove even more surely that it was a certain kind of mosquito which really
did the harm. So they built another house. Everything in this house was pure and clean. The
rooms were flooded with fresh air and sunshine. Half of the house was carefully screened and
shut off from the other half. The men in the half that was screened kept perfectly well. Those
in the other half let themselves be bitten by mosquitoes which had been in the houses where
there was yellow fever. All became dangerously ill with the fever. Two of these brave physicians
died of the fever while trying to find the cause, in order that they might save the lives of
thousands of people."

"That is modern heroism," said Mrs. Reece, "and service of the highest sort. All humanity is
indebted to those brave men. There is no doubt but that our Panama Canal could not be in progress
to-day were it not for the extermination of the mosquito in the canal zone. Since we can never
tell where a mosquito has been, or what kind of a mosquito it is, I suppose it is best to keep
mosquitoes from biting, and always to keep them out of the house. And now, children, supper
is ready, and after that games. Let us go to the dining-room!"

XI

CAMPING OUT

At last the day, expected all summer long, had come. The children, Hope and Betty, Jack, Peter,
and Jimmy, Mrs. Reece and Ben Gile, were gathered on the edge of the pond, their packs in the
canoes, their paddles at bow and stern. Other guides had taken the food and tents ahead the
day before. Their friends had gathered to bid them good-bye, and finally, amid the farewells,
they were off, Jimmie in a canoe by himself, Jack and Peter paddling Mrs. Reece, and Ben Gile
with the two little girls. Everybody was so excited that all talked at once, and nobody could
hear any one else. Hope and Betty had never been camping before, and the boys meant to show
the girls all the wonders of sleeping and eating out in the woods.

Finally they came to a "carry"--that is, a path leading from one lake to another, across which
the food and canoes have to be lugged. The girls and Mrs. Reece carried the packs and food
over, making several trips in order to do so; and the boys and the guide, crossing their paddles
under the thwarts of the canoes and raising the blades on their shoulders, balanced the canoes
and trotted swiftly over the carry. Nothing seemed any trouble that glorious, beautiful day--nothing
too heavy, nothing too hard. Betty and Hope could have skipped over every inch of the trail,
and they were quite sure that they could have done all the paddling, too. And Betty did learn,
in after years, not only to paddle, but also to carry her own canoe, for she grew to be a big,
strong, athletic girl, with rosy cheeks and a quick, sure step.

Hour after hour they went from one pond to another. The ponds were larger and wilder at each
crossing, and already they were in a wilderness of woods and lakes, and heard the whistle of
the hawk, the scream of the lonely eagle, and the crazy cries of the loon. Every once in a
while a big heron mounted lazily upward and flew off solemnly to a place where his peace need
not be disturbed.

Although Hope and Peter and Jack lived all the year around in Rangeley Village, yet they had
never been so far away from home before, and to them it seemed very wonderful. Even in the
midst of it all, however, Jack did not forget the prize Ben Gile had offered. He hurried over
carry after carry, and at the end of each one might be found flat on his face studying some
little hill of ants.

At last, after travelling five hours, they came to a halt, ravenously hungry. Dinner was cooked
and eaten, and then, after dinner, they began their long ascent of Saddleback, for they were
going to a lonely little pond on the second highest mountain in the State of Maine. There,
at Camp-in-the-Clouds, was a cabin in which Mrs. Reece could sleep, and the girls, too, if
they wished, although they declared that they would not.

Up, up the hill they trudged, stepping over blow-downs, following their footing carefully,
and watching with interest the little animals that scampered out of their way. But never did
packs grow so heavy, and at last Mrs. Reece, who was carrying nothing but Jack's camera, sat
down panting and laughing.

"I can't go a step farther," she declared, "until I catch my breath."

"This is a good place to rest," assented the guide. "Some deer found it so this morning, I
think. Here, catch that butterfly, Jack!"

In a flash Jack had caught the butterfly, and brought it, gently, to Ben Gile.

"You don't see this fellow up here often. Who knows the difference between a butterfly and
a moth? No one? Well, that is because most children are going to bed about the time the moth
begins to fly. Doesn't any one know? You have all seen moths and butterflies? Well, well, well!

"The first thing you see is that when the moth lights on the edge of a flower-cup, instead
of holding the wings up above the body, as the butterfly does, it spreads its wings flat over
the body. Then a butterfly has little knobs at the tips of its slender antennæ, while the moth
has slender ones without knobs, or pretty, feathery ones that look like plumes."

"I supposed," said Peter, "that moths and butterflies were just the same, except that moths
will fly into the house and burn their wings on the lamps." Peter didn't in the least care
about moths and butterflies. He was longing to get to the top of the mountain, but he was too
polite to seem impatient.

"They are alike in many ways. You remember, do you not, that the locust has a pair of soft
jaws covering over the dark, hard ones? In the moths and butterflies these jaws are different.
Each one is long, and has a deep groove on the inner side. These two grooves fit together,
and make a slender tube called a proboscis. When flying this long tube is rolled up in a tight
coil under the head; alighting, the proboscis is quickly uncoiled and dipped into the throat
of the flower, and the sweet nectar sipped from it. See here, Jack, what have you on your fingers?"

"The dust from the butterfly's wings, sir."

"No, not quite dust, or powder, either. That dust is tiny hair and scales. If I had a powerful
lens in my pocket I could show you how deeply some of these tiny scales are scalloped, so that
they look like a hand with fingers. If you rubbed all the scales off that wing there would
be no color left, for the scales are like little sacs, and many of them contain grains of color
called pigment--red, yellow, or brown. You have all seen the rainbow of colors on a soap-bubble?
Well, the brilliant colors of the wing are made in just the same way as the colors on a bubble:
by the light striking the little ridges on the overlapping scales."

"It is not only we who are fearfully and wonderfully made," said Mrs. Reece, "but even the
tiniest creatures God has created, and all with a purpose, all with a place."

The guide nodded his head. "The more you study, the more you see how every least thing is part
of a great mysterious whole. If you look at a butterfly's wing from which the scales have been
rubbed you will see plan and purpose in the placing of even those scales; for the little pits
into which the stems of the scale fit are turned all one way, toward the base of the wing."

"They are so beautiful!" exclaimed Betty. "Are they always pretty?"

"That depends," replied the old man, "whether in their caterpillar youth you think them pretty.
They have a bad name, then, for being homely, and do a good deal of damage."

"Oh, I hate caterpillars!" cried Hope.

"Fuzzy caterpillars hump so and crawl," said Betty.

"You mean woolly bears?"

"Woolly bears!" exclaimed the children.

"Yes; not Teddy bears. They have to play somehow, so they wiggle for joy, and this takes them
along very fast--that is, fast for a caterpillar. Sometimes they spin a long thread by which
they take a flying short cut and land--on your back."

Jimmie dropped a tiny twig down Betty's back, which made her scream.

"But they don't harm us," said Ben Gile. "They are so fussy about what they eat for dinner
that they wouldn't think of biting even the sweetest little boy or girl. They prefer something
far more tender. Ah, you wouldn't like Isabella!" The old man shook his head sadly.

"Isabella! Who is Isabella?" questioned the children.

"Isabella is always in a hurry," said the guide--"always. She is brown in the middle, and black
on the head and tail end, Isabella is, and she walks rapidly, as if she had a great deal to
do before she could take time to be made over into a tiger-moth. She stops every once in a
while to make sure she is on the right road; then she hurries along in a nervous, fidgety way,
looking for a nice, comfortable stone under which to have a winter home, for Isabella is in
such haste that she could never think of taking time to spin a cocoon."

"But do all caterpillars turn into moths or butterflies?" asked Jack.

"Yes, every one, my son, that lives long enough, just as surely as a boy will turn into a man.
The butterfly lays the egg, and after the egg has been quiet for a while out comes a little
worm; the worm spins the cocoon, and out of the cocoon comes a perfect moth, or butterfly.
It is a wonderful cycle, a wonderful series of changes. Little boys and girls seem to be surrounded
with more love and don't change their skins as moths do, but the mystery of life belongs quite
as much to the helpless moth as it does to any one of us."

"But is a caterpillar an insect, and is a butterfly an insect?" asked Betty.

"Of course, you goose," said Jimmie; "you don't expect to hatch a duck from a hen's egg, do you?"

But Ben Gile, who was older than Jimmie and decidedly more patient, explained, carefully: "If
you look at a caterpillar and a moth you will see that their bodies aren't so unlike, after
all. They are made up of rings, and both the moth and the caterpillar have six legs apiece.
Most caterpillars have little prop legs, but these aren't real legs and shouldn't be counted.
Caterpillars eat and eat and eat; they are such solid little chaps they must need a good many
legs, real and false, to keep moving at all. Well, heigho! stretch your own legs, boys! We'll
leave the caterpillar where it is, and move on to the top of the mountain, or we'll never be
there in time to eat our own supper. One, two, three, march!"

And off they went, talking and laughing and scrambling up the side of the mountain, which swung
dark and steep above them.

XII

CAMP-IN-THE-CLOUDS

The camp was reached. Once there, the children found the other two guides in the cabin. The
cook-tent was already pitched; the sleeping-tents had been left so that the boys might choose
their own locations and help in pitching them. It was a beautiful place--remote, wild, two-thirds
up the side of the great mountain.

In front was the famous trout pond, and beyond the little valley made by the pond the crest
of the mountain rose higher and higher. Dusk was coming on, and the crisp mountain air was
filled with the shadows of the woods; along the mountain summit lay streamers of white cloud.
Down, down, down reached the long fingers of cloud, and up, up, up reached the deep shadows,
just as if a great hand were closing the world in dusk. Every little sound was as clear in
the evening air as the water of the pond was transparent. Small shadows moved about the edge
of the pond--deer, they were, said Ben Gile, that had come down to the edge to drink.

"Phew, isn't it cold!" shouted the children, as they ran from one thing to another; "and won't
supper taste good!"

Jack, who hadn't on any stout boots like Jimmie's, and whose jacket was threadbare and thin,
began to think the sleeping-blankets would feel good when it was time to crawl in. In front
of the cabin blazed a big camp-fire, and around this fire supper was served. "Did stewed apricots,
soda-biscuits, bacon, eggs, hot cakes, ever taste so good? Will they ever taste so good again?
Did hot cakes and syrup ever make the butter fly so fast?" asked Ben Gile.

"And, speaking of the butterfly," he went on, "it's not time to turn in yet, it's too dark
to fish or explore, so let me tell you a little more about the butterfly, and if you don't
like it you can just imagine it is a hot-cake butterfly."

The children thought this was a great joke. But Peter, who had eaten so much he was almost
asleep, didn't hear what Ben Gile said.

"Well," the old man continued, just as if he were beginning where he had left off in the afternoon--"well,
the caterpillar eats so much--it eats almost as much as Peter does"--at this Peter opened his
eyes good-naturedly--"it eats so much that very soon it grows too big for its skin, so the
old skin splits for the growing body, and out comes young caterpillar in a clean, new dress--a
very easy way for Mrs. Butterfly to have her babies get new clothes. Don't you think it is,
Mrs. Reece?--no hems to stitch, no buttons to sew on, no darning. The only things their mothers
ever do for them is to start them with the food they like.

"And such a butterfly this mother is that little she cares whether her children are considered
pests or not, because they eat everything green that they like, and eat before they are invited.
A long sigh of relief the gardener or farmer draws when the caterpillars lie quiet to pupate.
They lie very, very quiet, with wings, antennæ, and legs folded under the body."

"What does pupate mean?" asked Betty, who was poking the fire and listening hard to every word
the old man spoke.

"It means just that--to lie quiet and change. They do it in different ways. Some crawl down
into the ground and some pull out their silky hairs, and with these and the silk they can spin
they make a soft, silken cocoon. Some make over their last skin into a hard covering. The monarch
butterfly does this.

"And there is a troublesome creature called the clothes moth--Mrs. Reece can tell you about
that--who lays its eggs on anything woollen it can find. After a while a baby clothes moth,
a whitish worm, hatches out. Then this little fellow eats the fibres of the wool, and finally
spins a cocoon out of these fibres and its own silk.

"Some caterpillars are leaf-rollers--that is, when they pupate they roll over the corners of
a leaf, make themselves a neat hammock, and there lie quite still in a cool and comfortable
place to sleep."

Poor Peter had tumbled over, his head on Mrs. Reece's lap. Betty and Hope, wide awake, were
thinking just as much of the wonderful tent in which they were to sleep as of the butterflies
and moths. They were wide awake enough to point their fingers at sleepy Peter.

"I think there is one kind of moth," said Mrs. Reece, stroking Peter's silky hair, "that spins
something almost as soft as this."

"Softer," affirmed Ben Gile; "and that is the silk-worm."

"Does the caterpillar make the silk our dresses are made from?" asked Betty.

"Yes, indeed. The mother moth is a creamy-white. She lays several hundred eggs; from each of
these eggs comes a little worm. These little worms have been cared for so long by men that
they don't know how to take care of themselves any more.

"They like to eat the leaves of the mulberry-tree. If these leaves are not to be found they
will sometimes eat lettuce. For forty-five days they eat as fast as they can, which is a good
deal faster than greedy children can eat.

"Every ten days or so they cast aside their old skin and come out in a new one. After the last
moulting of the skin the worm begins to spin a cocoon about itself. At first the cocoon is
not very smooth, but in a while the worm gets well started and spins the rest of it with one
long, silky thread."

"Isn't that wonderful!" exclaimed one of the guides. "I suppose that silk is finer than the
finest trout-line."

"A hundred times finer," answered Ben. "Usually it is three hundred yards long. Before the
pupa has a chance to make its way out, and so destroy the long, silken thread, the man who
has taken such care of the worm drops the cocoon into boiling water, which kills the pupa at
once. Then the precious silk thread is carefully unwound on to little spools, and is ready
to be made into thread or spun into silk.

"And now, children, it's time for you to spin your dreams. Shake up Peter, and we'll get ready
for the night. Too bad to leave this fire, but we can have one as often as we want."

The boys slept like tops, but there were two little girls who lay rather wide awake most of
the night, listening to the strangest grunting sounds in the world.

XIII

STORM-BOUND

After two glorious days of exploring--"exploricating," the guides called it--the children went
to bed early, expecting to make an early start to hunt partridge. They were so tired from their
good times that for two or three hours they slept like tops.

But in front of the cabin Ben Gile and Mrs. Reece and the other guides were looking at the
night sky anxiously. The lightning flashed more and more vividly, black clouds were coming
nearer and nearer. What was a distant rumble soon became a near-by, long undertow of ominous
sound. Nearer and nearer it came, until every flash was followed by a sound like ripping.

Mrs. Reece was very uneasy, for she did not like to have the children in the tents alone. But
soon Betty and Hope came scampering through the dark to the cabin. They were surprised to see
the older people up. Before long the boys also came to the cabin rubbing their eyes, yawning,
and pretending not to care whether there was to be a cyclone or a cloud-burst.

For a while all sat waiting for the storm to break. When it did break, what torrents of rain
and wind descended! How the trees groaned and cracked! How the rain roared upon the shingled
roof, and how the wind howled through the mountain valley!

"Well," said Ben Gile, "let's have a fire in the fireplace, then we can have a crackle of our
own." He had noticed how nervous Mrs. Reece grew, and that the little girls were watching her.
He could not help thinking that it was foolish, even wicked, to waste strength in fear of something
which no one of them could stop. "Build a fire, boys." And build a fire they did--a royal good
blaze. "Now throw on some of those pine-cones you children gathered." There was a flare in
the cabin almost as bright as the incessant flare of the lightning outside. "I'll tell you
what we'll do," he continued, "we will have a midnight spread. We will have some of Tom's famous
flapjacks. Mrs. Reece, don't you want to make molasses candy, and then the children can pull it."

The storm was forgotten by the children as, with many squeals of glee, they rushed into this
midnight frolic.

"And now, Ben," said Tom, the guide, "I've just found something; I have it in my hand. I propose,
Ben, while the rest of us work, that you make one of your stories out of it, and tell us all
about it."

Tom opened his hand, and the children crowded around to see. There was a shout of laughter.

"Why, that's only a dead June-bug!"

"Who wants to know about a June-bug?" exclaimed Jimmie, much to the discomfiture of the guide,
who knew a great deal about moose and deer and bears and beavers, even if he didn't know much
about a June-bug. The guides had profound respect for the schoolmaster, Ben Gile, who was really
too wise and kind to laugh at another's ignorance. But this is another story, and Jimmie learned
better in the years to come.

