"Conductors or collectors of copper and lead were constructed so as to come in contact with
the edge of the copper disk, or with other forms of plates hereafter to be described. Modern
dynamos range in power from little machines operating machinery requiring only fractions of
a horsepower to great dynamos operating street-car lines and lighting cities; but all are built
on the same principle as Faraday's rotating disk. By this discovery the use of electricity
as a practical and economical motive power became possible.

STORAGE BATTERIES

When the discoveries of Faraday of electro-magnetic induction had made possible the means of
easily generating electricity, the next natural step was to find a means of storing it or accumulating
it. This, however, proved no easy matter, and as yet a practical storage or secondary battery
that is neither too cumbersome, too fragile, nor too weak in its action has not been invented.
If a satisfactory storage battery could be made, it is obvious that its revolutionary effects
could scarcely be overestimated. In the single field of aeronautics, it would probably solve
the question of aerial navigation. Little wonder, then, that inventors have sought so eagerly
for the invention of satisfactory storage batteries. As early as 1803 Ritter had attempted
to make such a secondary battery. In 1843 Grove also attempted it. But it was not until 1859,
when Gaston Planche produced his invention, that anything like a reasonably satisfactory storage
battery was made. Planche discovered that sheets of lead immersed in dilute sulphuric acid
were very satisfactory for the production of polarization effects. He constructed a battery
of sheets of lead immersed in sulphuric acid, and, after charging these for several hours from
the cells of an ordinary Bunsen battery, was able to get currents of great strength and considerable
duration. This battery, however, from its construction of lead, was necessarily heavy and cumbersome.
Faure improved it somewhat by coating the lead plates with red-lead, thus increasing the capacity
of the cell. Faure's invention gave a fresh impetus to inventors, and shortly after the market
was filled with storage batteries of various kinds, most of them modifications of Planche's
or Faure's. The ardor of enthusiastic inventors soon flagged, however, for all these storage
batteries proved of little practical account in the end, as compared with other known methods
of generating power.

Three methods of generating electricity are in general use: static or frictional electricity
is generated by "plate" or "static" machines; galvanic, generated by batteries based on Volta's
discovery; and induced, or faradic, generated either by chemical or mechanical action. There
is still another kind, thermo-electricity, that may be generated in a most simple manner. In
1821 Seebecle, of Berlin, discovered that when a circuit was formed of two wires of different
metals, if there be a difference in temperature at the juncture of these two metals an electrical
current will be established. In this way heat may be transmitted directly into the energy of
the current without the interposition of the steam-engine. Batteries constructed in this way
are of low resistance, however, although by arranging several of them in "series," currents
of considerable strength can be generated. As yet, however, they are of little practical importance.

About the middle of the century Clerk-Maxwell advanced the idea that light waves were really
electro-magnetic waves. If this were true and light proved to be simply one form of electrical
energy, then the same would be true of radiant heat. Maxwell advanced this theory, but failed
to substantiate it by experimental confirmation. But Dr. Heinrich Hertz, a few years later,
by a series of experiments, demonstrated the correctness of Maxwell's surmises. What are now
called "Hertzian waves" are waves apparently identical with light waves, but of much lower
pitch or period. In his experiments Hertz showed that, under proper conditions, electric sparks
between polished balls were attended by ether waves of the same nature as those of light, but
of a pitch of several millions of vibrations per second. These waves could be dealt with as
if they were light waves--reflected, refracted, and polarized. These are the waves that are
utilized in wireless telegraphy.

ROENTGEN RAYS, OR X-RAYS

In December of 1895 word came out of Germany of a scientific discovery that startled the world.
It came first as a rumor, little credited; then as a pronounced report; at last as a demonstration.
It told of a new manifestation of energy, in virtue of which the interior of opaque objects
is made visible to human eyes. One had only to look into a tube containing a screen of a certain
composition, and directed towards a peculiar electrical apparatus, to acquire clairvoyant vision
more wonderful than the discredited second-sight of the medium. Coins within a purse, nails
driven into wood, spectacles within a leather case, became clearly visible when subjected to
the influence of this magic tube; and when a human hand was held before the tube, its bones
stood revealed in weird simplicity, as if the living, palpitating flesh about them were but
the shadowy substance of a ghost.

Not only could the human eye see these astounding revelations, but the impartial evidence of
inanimate chemicals could be brought forward to prove that the mind harbored no illusion. The
photographic film recorded the things that the eye might see, and ghostly pictures galore soon
gave a quietus to the doubts of the most sceptical. Within a month of the announcement of Professor
Roentgen's experiments comment upon the "X-ray" and the "new photography" had become a part
of the current gossip of all Christendom.

It is hardly necessary to say that such a revolutionary thing as the discovery of a process
whereby opaque objects became transparent, or translucent, was not achieved at a single bound
with no intermediate discoveries. In 1859 the German physicist Julius Plucker (1801-1868) noticed
that when there was an electrical discharge through an exhausted tube at a low pressure, on
the surrounding walls of the tube near the negative pole, or cathode, appeared a greenish phosphorescence.
This discovery was soon being investigated by a number of other scientists, among others Hittorf,
Goldstein, and Professor (now Sir William) Crookes. The explanations given of this phenomenon
by Professor Crookes concern us here more particularly, inasmuch as his views did not accord
exactly with those held by the other two scientists, and as his researches were more directly
concerned in the discovery of the Roentgen rays. He held that the heat and phosphorescence
produced in a low-pressure tube were caused by streams of particles, projected from the cathode
with great velocity, striking the sides of the glass tube. The composition of the glass seemed
to enter into this phosphorescence also, for while lead glass produced blue phosphorescence,
soda glass produced a yellowish green. The composition of the glass seemed to be changed by
a long-continued pelting of these particles, the phosphorescence after a time losing its initial
brilliancy, caused by the glass becoming "tired," as Professor Crookes said. Thus when some
opaque substance, such as iron, is placed between the cathode and the sides of the glass tube
so that it casts a shadow in a certain spot on the glass for some little time, it is found
on removing the opaque substance or changing its position that the area of glass at first covered
by the shadow now responded to the rays in a different manner from the surrounding glass.

