Transcriber's note:

The author's spelling and hyphenation are inconsistent, and have not been changed except in
the case of obvious typographical errors, which are listed at the end of this e-text. Spellings
and accents in foreign languages are particularly eccentric.}

    RECORDS OF LATER LIFE

    BY

    FRANCES ANN KEMBLE

    NEW YORK
    HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY
    1882.

    COPYRIGHT, 1882,
    BY
    HENRY HOLT & CO.

    RECORDS OF LATER LIFE.

                                       PHILADELPHIA, October 26th, 1834.
  DEAREST MRS. JAMESON,

However stoutly your incredulity may have held out hitherto against the various "authentic"
reports of my marriage, I beg you will, upon receipt of this, immediately believe that I was
married on the 7th of June last, and have now been a wife nearly five mortal months. You know
that in leaving the stage I left nothing that I regretted; but the utter separation from my
family consequent upon settling in this country, is a serious source of pain to me....

With regard to what you say, about the first year of one's marriage not being as happy as the
second, I know not how that may be. I had pictured to myself no fairyland of enchantments within
the mysterious precincts of matrimony; I expected from it rest, quiet, leisure to study, to
think, and to work, and legitimate channels for the affections of my nature....

In the closest and dearest friendship, shades of character, and the precise depth and power
of the various qualities of mind and heart, never approximate to such a degree, as to preclude
all possibility of occasional misunderstandings.

    "Not e'en the nearest heart, and most our own,
    Knows half the reasons why we smile or sigh."

It is impossible that it should be otherwise: for no two human beings were ever fashioned absolutely
alike, even in their gross outward bodily form and lineaments, and how should the fine and
infinite spirit admit of such similarity with another? But the broad and firm principles upon
which all honorable and enduring sympathy is founded, the love of truth, the reverence for
right, the abhorrence of all that is base and unworthy, admit of no difference or misunderstanding;
and where these exist in the relations of two people united for life, it seems to me that love
and happiness, as perfect as this imperfect existence affords, may be realized....

Of course, kindred, if not absolutely similar, minds, do exist; but they do not often meet,
I think, and hardly ever unite. Indeed, though the enjoyment of intercourse with those who
resemble us may be very great, I suppose the influence of those who differ from us is more
wholesome; for in mere unison of thought and feeling there could be no exercise for forbearance,
toleration, self-examination by comparison with another nature, or the sifting of one's own
opinions and feelings, and testing their accuracy and value, by contact and contrast with opposite
feelings and opinions. A fellowship of mere accord, approaching to identity in the nature of
its members, would lose much of the uses of human intercourse and its worth in the discipline
of life, and, moreover, render the separation of death intolerable. But I am writing you a
disquisition, and no one needs it less....

I did read your praise of me, and thank you for it; it is such praise as I wish I deserved,
and the sense of the affection which dictated it, in some measure, diminished my painful consciousness
of demerit. But I thank you for so pleasantly making me feel the excellence of moral worth,
and though the picture you held up to me as mine made me blush for the poor original, yet I
may strive to become more like your likeness of me, and so turn your praise to profit. Those
who love me will read it perhaps with more satisfaction than my conscience allows me to find
in it, and for the pleasure which they must derive from such commendation of me I thank you
with all my heart.

What can I tell you of myself? My life, and all its occupations, are of a sober neutral tint.
I am busy preparing my Journal for the press. I read but little, and that of old-fashioned
kinds. I have never read much, and am disgracefully ignorant: I am looking forward with delight
to hours of quiet study, and the mental hoards in store for me. I am busy preparing to leave
town; I am at present, and have been ever since my marriage, staying in the house of my brother-in-law,
and feel not a little anxious to be in a home of my own. But painters, and carpenters, and
upholsterers are dirty divinities of a lower order, not to be moved, or hastened, by human
invocations (or even imprecations), and we must e'en bide their time.

I please myself much in the fancying of furniture, and fitting up of the house; and I look
forward to a garden, green-house, and dairy, among my future interests, to each of which I
intend to addict myself zealously.

My pets are a horse, a bird, and a black squirrel, and I do not see exactly what more a reasonable
woman could desire. Human companionship, indeed, at present, I have not much of; but as like
will to like, I do not despair of attracting towards me, by-and-by, some of my own kind, with
whom I may enjoy pleasant intercourse; but you can form no idea--none--none--of the intellectual
dearth and drought in which I am existing at present.

I care nothing for politics here, ... though I wish this great Republic well. But what are
the rulers and guides of the people doing in England? I see the abolition of the Peerage has
been suggested, but, I presume, as a bad joke.... If I were a man in England, I should like
to devote my life to the cause of national progress, carried on through party politics and
public legislation; and if I was not a Christian, I think, every now and then, I should like
to shoot Brougham.... You speak of coming to this country: but I do not think you would like
it; though you are much respected, admired, and loved here.

I have not met Miss Martineau yet, but I am afraid she is not likely to like me much. I admire
her genius greatly, but have an inveterate tendency to worship at all the crumbling shrines,
which she and her employers seem intent upon pulling down; and I think I should be an object
of much superior contempt to that enlightened and clever female Radical and Utilitarian.

I was introduced to Mrs. Austin some years ago, and she impressed me more, in many ways, than
any of the remarkable women I have known. Her husband's constant ill-health kept her in a state
of comparative seclusion, and deprived London society of a person of uncommon original mental
power and acquired knowledge; in most respects I thought her superior to the most brilliant
female members of the society of my day, of which her daughter, Lucy Gordon, was a distinguished
ornament.

Once too, years ago, I passed an evening with Lady Byron, and fell in love with her for quoting
the axiom which she does apply, though she did not invent it--"To treat men as if they were
better than they are, is the surest way to make them better than they are:"--and whenever I
think of her I remember that.

I congratulate you on your acquaintance with Madame von Goethe: to know any one who had lived
intimately with the greatest genius of this age, and one of the greatest the world has produced,
seems to me an immense privilege.

Your letter is dated July--how many things are done that you then meant to do?

I am just now seeing a great deal of Edward Trelawney; he traveled with us last summer when
we went to Niagara, and professing a great regard for me, told me, upon reading your "notice"
of me, that he felt much inclined to write to you and solicit your acquaintance....

Good-bye, and God bless you; write to me when the spirit prompts you, and believe me always

                              Yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [My long experience of life in America presents the ideas and
    expectations with which I first entered upon it in an aspect at once
    ludicrous and melancholy to me now. With all an Englishwoman's
    notions of country interests, duties, and occupations; the village,
    the school, the poor, one's relations with the people employed on
    one's place, and one's own especial hobbies of garden, dairy, etc.,
    had all been contemplated by me from a point of view which, taken
    from rural life in my own country, had not the slightest resemblance
    to anything in any American existence.

    Butler Place--or as I then called it, "The Farm," preferring that
    homely, and far more appropriate, though less distinctive
    appellation, to the rather pretentious title, which neither the
    extent of the property nor size and style of the house
    warranted--was not then our own, and we inhabited it by the kind
    allowance of an old relation to whom it belonged, in consequence of
    my decided preference for a country to a town residence.

    It was in no respect superior to a second-rate farm-house in
    England, as Mr. Henry Berkeley told a Philadelphia friend of ours,
    who considered it a model country mansion and rural residence and
    asked him how it compared with the generality of "country places" in
    England.

    It was amply sufficient, however, for my desires: but not being
    mine, all my busy visions of gardening and green-house improvement,
    etc., had to be indefinitely postponed. Subsequently, I took great
    interest and pleasure in endeavoring to improve and beautify the
    ground round the house; I made flower-beds and laid out
    gravel-walks, and left an abiding mark of my sojourn there in a
    double row of two hundred trees, planted along the side of the
    place, bordered by the high-road; many of which, from my and my
    assistants' combined ignorance, died, or came to no good growth. But
    those that survived our unskillful operations still form a screen of
    shade to the grounds, and protect them in some measure from the dust
    and glare of the highway.

    Cultivating my garden was not possible. My first attempt at
    cultivating my neighbors' good-will was a ludicrous and lamentable
    failure. I offered to teach the little children of my gardener and
    farmer, and as many of the village children as liked to join them,
    to read and write; but found my benevolent proposal excited nothing
    but a sort of contemptuous amazement. There was the village school,
    where they received instruction for which they were obliged and
    willing to pay, to which they were accustomed to go, which answered
    all their purposes, fulfilled all their desires, and where the small
    students made their exits and their entrances without bob or bow,
    pulling of forelock, or any other superstitious observance of
    civilized courtesy: my gratuitous education was sniffed at alike by
    parents and progeny, and of course the whole idea upon which I had
    proffered it was mistaken and misplaced, and may have appeared to
    them to imply an impertinent undervaluing of a system with which
    they were perfectly satisfied; of the conditions of which, however,
    I was entirely ignorant then. These people and their children wanted
    nothing that I could give them. The "ladies" liked the make of my
    gowns, and would have borrowed them for patterns with pleasure, and
    this was all they desired or required from me.

    On the first 4th of July I spent there, being alone at the place, I
    organized (British fashion) a feast and rejoicing, such as I thought
    should mark the birthday of American Independence, and the expulsion
    of the tyrannical English from the land. I had a table set under the
    trees, and a dinner spread for thirty-two guests, to which number
    the people on the two farms, with children and servants, amounted.
    Beer and wine were liberally provided, and fireworks, for due
    honoring of the evening; and though I did not take "the head of the
    table" (which would have been a usurpation), or make speeches on the
    "expulsion of the British," I did my best to give my visitors "a
    good time"; but succeeded only in imposing upon them a dinner and
    afternoon of uncomfortable constraint, from which the juniors of the
    party alone seemed happily free. Neither the wine nor beer were
    touched, and I found they were rather objects of moral reprobation
    than of material comfort to my Quaker farmer and his family, who
    were all absolute temperance people; he, indeed, was sorely
    disinclined to join at all in the "festive occasion," objecting to
    me repeatedly that it was a "shame and a pity to waste such a fine
    day for work in doing nothing"; and so, with rather a doleful
    conviction that my hospitality was as little acceptable to my
    neighbors as my teaching, I bade my guests farewell, and never
    repeated the experiment of a 4th of July Celebration dinner at
    Butler Place.

    Of all my blunders, however, that which I made with regard to the
    dairy was the most ludicrous. Understanding nothing at all of the
    entirely independent position of our "farmer"--to whom, in fact, the
    dairy was rented, as well as the meadows that pastured the
    cattle--and rather dissatisfied at not being able to obtain a daily
    fresh supply of butter for our home consumption, I went down to the
    farm-house, and had an interview with the dairymaid; to whom I
    explained my desire for a small supply of fresh butter daily for our
    breakfast table. But words are faint to express her amazement at the
    proposition; the butter was churned regularly in large quantities
    twice a week, and the necessary provision for our household being
    set aside and charged to us, the remainder was sent off to market
    with the rest of the farm produce, and there disposed of to the
    public in general. Philadelphia butter had then a high reputation
    through all the sea-board States, where it was held superior to that
    of all other markets; it was sold in New York and Baltimore, and
    sent as far as Boston as a welcome present, and undoubtedly not
    churned oftener than twice a week. Fresh butter every morning! who
    ever heard the like? Twice-a-week butter not good enough for
    anybody! who ever dreamt of such vagaries? The young woman was quiet
    and Quakerly sober, in spite of her unbounded astonishment at such a
    demand; but when, having exhausted my prettiest vocabulary of
    requests and persuasions, and, as I thought, not quite without
    effect, I turned to leave her, she followed me to the door with this
    parting address: "Well--anyhow--don't thee fill theeself up with the
    notion that I'm going to churn butter for thee more than twice a
    week." She probably thought me mad, and I was too ignorant to know
    that to "bring" a small quantity of butter in the enormous churn she
    used was a simple impossibility: nor, I imagine, was she aware that
    any machine of lesser dimensions was ever used for the purpose. I
    got myself a tiny table-churn, and for a little while made a small
    quantity of fresh butter myself for our daily breakfast supply; but
    soon weaned of it, and thought it not worth while--nobody cared for
    it but myself, and I accepted my provision of market butter twice a
    week, with no more ado about the matter, together with the
    conclusion that the dairy at Butler Place would decidedly not be one
    of its mistress's hobbies.

    Of any charitable interest, or humane occupation, to be derived from
    the poverty of my village neighbors, I very soon found my
    expectation equally vain. Our village had no poor--none in the
    deplorable English acceptation of that word; none in the too often
    degraded and degrading conditions it implies. People poorer than
    others, comparatively poor people, it undoubtedly had--hard workers,
    toiling for their daily bread; but none who could not get well-paid
    work or find sufficient bread; and the abject element of ignorant,
    helpless, hopeless pauperism, looking for its existence to charity,
    and substituting alms-taking for independent labor, was unknown
    there. As for "visiting" among them, as technically understood and
    practiced by Englishwomen among their poorer neighbors, such a
    civility would have struck mine as simply incomprehensible; and
    though their curiosity might perhaps have been gratified by making
    acquaintance with my various (to them) strange peculiarities, I
    doubt even the amusement they might have derived from them being
    accepted as any equivalent for what would have seemed the strangest
    of them all--my visit.

    A similar blessed exemption from the curse of pauperism existed in
    the New England village of Lenox, where I owned a small property,
    and passed part of many years. Being asked by my friends there to
    give a public reading, it became a question to what purpose the
    proceeds of the entertainment could best be applied. I suggested
    "the poor of the village," but, "We have no poor," was the reply,
    and the sum produced by the reading was added to a fund which
    established an excellent public library; for though Lenox had no
    paupers, it had numerous intelligent readers among its population.

    I have spoken of the semi-disapprobation with which my Quaker farmer
    declined the wine and beer offered him at my 4th of July festival.
    Some years after, when I found the men employed in mowing a meadow
    of mine at Lenox with no refreshment but "water from the well," I
    sent in much distress a considerable distance for a barrel of beer,
    which seemed to me an indispensable adjunct to such labor under the
    fervid heat of that summer sky; and was most seriously expostulated
    with by my admirable friend, Mr. Charles Sedgwick, as introducing
    among the laborers of Lenox a mischievous need and deleterious
    habit, till then utterly unknown there, and setting a pernicious
    example to both employers and employed throughout the whole
    neighborhood. In short, my poor barrel of beer was an offense to the
    manners and morals of the community I lived in, and my meadow was
    mowed upon cold "water from the well"; of which indeed the water was
    so delicious, that I often longed for it as King David did for that
    which, after all, he would not drink, because his mighty men had
    risked their lives in procuring it for him.[1]

         [1] In writing thus, I do not mean to imply that the abuse of
        intoxicating liquors, or the vice of drunkenness were then
        unknown in America. The national habits of the present day would
        suggest that such a change (albeit in the space of fifty years)
        would surpass the rapidity of movement of even that most rapidly
        changing nation. But the use of either beer or wine at the
        tables of the Philadelphians, when I first lived among them, was
        quite exceptional. There was a small knot of old-fashioned
        gentlemen (very like old-fashioned Englishmen they were), by
        whom good wine was known and appreciated; especially certain
        exquisite Madeira, of the Bingham and Butler names, the like of
        which it was believed the world could not produce; but this was
        Olympian nectar, for the gods alone; and the usual custom of the
        best society, at the early three-o'clock dinner, was
        water-drinking. Nor had the immense increase of the German
        population then flooded Philadelphia with perennial streams from
        innumerable "lager beer" cellars and saloons: the universal
        rule, at the time when these letters were written, was absolute
        temperance; the exception to it, a rare occasional instance of
        absolute intemperance.

        Very many fewer than fifty years ago, a celebrated professional
        English cricketer consulted, in deep dudgeon, a medical
        gentleman upon certain internal symptoms, which he attributed
        entirely to the "damned beastly cold water" which had been the
        sole refreshment in the Philadelphia cricket-field, and which
        had certainly heated his temper to a pitch of exasperation which
        made it difficult for the medical authority appealed to, to keep
        his countenance during the consultation.

        I need not say that, under the above state of things, no
        provision was made for what I should call domestic or household
        drunkenness in American families. Beer, or beer money, was not
        found necessary to sustain the strength of footmen driving about
        town on a coach-box for an hour or two of an afternoon, or
        valets laying out their masters' boots and cravats for dinner,
        or ladies'-maids pinning caps on their mistresses' heads, or
        even young housemaids condemned to the exhausting labor of
        making beds and dusting furniture. The deplorable practice of
        swilling adulterated malt liquor two or three times a day,
        begun in early boy and girlhood among English servants, had not
        in America, as I am convinced it has with us, laid the
        foundation for later habits of drinking in a whole class of the
        community, among whom a pernicious inherited necessity for the
        indulgence is one of its consequences; while another, and more
        lamentable one, is the wide-spread immorality, to remedy (and if
        possible prevent) which is the object of the institution of the
        Girls' Friendly Society, and similar benevolent
        associations--none of which I am persuaded will effectually
        fulfill their object, until the vicious propensity to drink
        ceases to be fostered in the kitchens and servants' halls of our
        most respectable people.

    To English people, the character and quality of my "mowers" would
    seem astonishing enough; at the head of them was the son of a much
    respected New England judge, himself the owner of a beautiful farm
    adjoining my small estate, which he cultivated with his own hands--a
    most amiable, intelligent, and refined man, a gentleman in the
    deepest sense of the word, my very kind neighbor and friend, whose
    handsome countenance certainly expressed unbounded astonishment at
    my malt liquor theory applied to his labor and that of his
    assistants.]

                                      PHILADELPHIA, November 27th, 1837.
  MY DEAR H----,

If in about a month's time you should grumble and fall out with me for not writing, you will
certainly be in some degree justified; for I think it must be near upon three weeks since I
wrote to you, which is a sin and a shame. To say that I have not had time to write is nonsense,
for in three weeks there are too many days, hours, and minutes, for me to fancy that I really
had not had sufficient leisure, yet it has almost seemed as if I had not. I have been constantly
driving out to the farm, to watch the progress of the painting, whitewashing, etc., etc.: in
town I have been engaging servants, ordering china, glass, and furniture, choosing carpets,
curtains, and house linen, and devoutly studying all the time Dr. Kitchener's "Housekeeper's
Manual and Cook's Oracle." You see, I have been careful and troubled about many things, and
through them all you have been several thorns in both my sides; for I thought of you perpetually,
and knew I ought to write to you, and wanted and wished to do so--and didn't; for which pray
forgive me.

I want to tell you two circumstances about servants, illustrative of the mind and manners of
that class of persons in this country. A young woman engaged herself to me, as lady's-maid,
immediately before my marriage; she had been a seamstress, and her health had been much injured
by constantly stooping at her sedentary employment. I took her into my service at a salary
of £25 a year. She had little to do; I took care that every day she should be out walking for
at least an hour; she had two holidays a week, all my discarded wardrobe, and every kindness
and attention of every sort that I could bestow upon her, for she was very gentle and pleasant
to me, and I liked her very much. A short time ago, she gave me warning; the first reason she
assigned for doing so was that she didn't think she should like living in the country, but
finally it resolved itself into this--that she could not bear being a servant. She told me
that she had no intention of seeking any other situation, for that she knew very well that
after mine she could find none that she would like, but she said the sense of entire independence
was necessary to her happiness, and she could not exist any longer in a state of "servitude."
She told me she was going to resume her former life, or rather, as I should say, her former
process of dying, for it was literally that; she took her wages, and left me. She was very
pretty and refined, and rejoiced in the singular Christian name of Unity.[2]

    [2] A lady's-maid was quite an unusual member of a household in
    America, at this time; I remember no lady in Philadelphia who then
    had such an attendant: it is not impossible that the singularity of
    her service, and therefore apparently anomalous character of her
    position, may have helped to disgust my maid Unity with her
    situation. Probably the influence of Quaker modes of thought, and
    feeling, and habits of life (even among such of the community as
    were not "friends"--technically so called), had produced the
    peculiarities which characterized the Philadelphian society of that
    day, and made people among whom I lived strange to me--as I to them.

The other instance of domestic manners in these parts was furnished me by a woman whom I engaged
as cook; terms agreed upon, everything settled: two days after, she sent me word that she had
"changed her mind,"--that's all--isn't it pleasant?...

My dear H----, you half fly into a rage with me all across the Atlantic, because I tell you
that I hope ere long to see you; really that was not quite the return I expected for what I
thought would be agreeable news to you; however, hear further.... If I am alive next summer,
I hope to spend three months in England: one with my own family and Emily Fitzhugh: one in
Scotland; and one with you, if you and Mrs. Taylor please.... I have been obliged to give up
riding, for some time ago my horse fell with me, and though I was not at all hurt, I was badly
frightened; so I trot about on my feet, and drive to and from town and the farm in a little
four-wheeled machine called here a wagon.

The other day, for the first time, I explored my small future domain, which is bounded, on
the right, by the high-road; on the left, by a not unromantic little mill-stream, with bits
of rock, and cedar-bushes, and dams, and, I am sorry to say, a very picturesque, half-tumbled-down
factory; on the north, by fields and orchards of our neighbors, and another road; and on the
south, by a pretty, deep, shady lane, running from the high-road to the above-mentioned factory....
I think the extent of our estate is about three hundred acres. A small portion of it, perhaps
some seventy acres, lies on the other side of the high-road. Except a kitchen-garden, there
is none that deserves the name: no flower-beds, no shrubberies, no gravel-walks. A large field,
now planted with maize, or Indian corn, is on one side of an avenue of maple-trees that leads
to the house; on the other is an apple-orchard. There is nothing that can call itself a lawn,
though coarse grass grows all round the house. There are four pretty pasture meadows, and a
very pretty piece of woodland, which, coasting the stream and mill-dam, will, I foresee, become
a favorite haunt of mine. There is a farm-yard, a cider-press, a pond, a dairy, and out-houses,
and adjuncts innumerable.

I have succeeded, after difficulties and disasters manifold, in engaging an apparently tolerably
decent staff of servants; the house is freshly painted and clean, the furniture being finished
with all expedition, the carpets ready to lay down; next week I hope to send our household
out, and the week after I sincerely hope we shall transfer ourselves thither, and I shall be
in a home of my own.

Miss Martineau is just now in Philadelphia: I have seen and conversed with her, and I think,
were her stay long enough to admit of so agreeable a conclusion, we might become good friends.
It is not presumptuous for me to say that, dear H----, because, you know, a very close degree
of friendship may exist where there is great disparity of intellect. Her deafness is a serious
bar to her enjoyment of society, and some drawback to the pleasure of conversing with her,
for, as a man observed to me last night, "One feels so like a fool, saying, 'How do you do?'
through a speaking-trumpet in the middle of a drawing-room;" and unshoutable commonplaces form
the staple of all drawing-room conversation. They are giving literary parties to her, and balls
to one of their own townswomen who has just returned from abroad, which makes Philadelphia
rather gayer than usual; and I have had so long a fast from dissipation that I find myself
quite excited at the idea of going to a dance again.

I toil on, copying my Journal, and one volume of it is already printed; but now that the object
of its publication is gone, I feel rather disgusted at the idea of publishing it at all. You
know what my Journal always was, and that no word of it was ever written with the fear of the
printer's devil before my eyes, and now that I have become careless as to its money value,
it seems to me a mere mass of trivial egotism.... When I sold it, it was an excellent, good
book, for I thought it would help to make a small independence for my dear Dall; now she is
gone, and it is mere trash, but I have sold it....

My country life will, I hope, be one of study, and I pray and believe, of quiet happiness.
I drove out to the farm yesterday, and walked nearly four miles, through meadows and lanes
and by-roads, and over plowed fields, and found mill-streams and bits of picturesque rock,
and pretty paths to be explored at further length on horseback hereafter.... I have one very
great pleasure almost in contemplation; I think it probable that my friend, Miss Sedgwick,
will visit Philadelphia this winter. If she does, I am sure she will remain a short time here,
which will be a great delight to me.... I wish to have no more acquaintance--that is a pure
waste of time: I do not wish to know any one whom, if opportunity served, I should not desire
to make my friend, as well as my visitor. I have begun learning book-keeping by double entry,
and find it unspeakably tiresome; indeed, nothing in it engages my attention but various hypothetical
cases of Loss of Ships and Cargoes (as per invoice, so and so, and so and so); Bankruptcies,
with so much in the pound for creditors; Dissolutions of partnership, with estimates of joint
property, or calculations of profit and loss; Insurances and fire-catastrophes; Divisions of
capital invested in failing securities, or unlucky speculations; instead of attending to all
which in their purely business aspect, my imagination flies off to the dramatic, passionate,
human element involved in such accidents, and I think of all manner of plays and novels, instead
of "Cash Accounts," to be extracted therefrom....

Good-bye, dearest H----.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                              BRANCHTOWN, May 1st, 1835.
  DEAREST EMILY,

Reflecting upon the loss I have sustained in the death of my dear Dall, you exclaim, "How difficult
it is to realize that life has become eternity, hope is become certainty! How strange, how
impossible, it seems to conceive a state of existence without expectation, and where all is
fulfillment!" I have marked under the word "impossible," because such a belief is literally
impossible to my mind; the sense of activity, of desire for, and aiming at, and striving after
something better than what I am, is so essential a portion of the idea of happiness to me that
I absolutely can conceive of no happiness but in the attempt at, and consciousness of, progress.
The state where that hope did not exist, and where the spiritual energies were not presented
with deeper and higher objects of attainment, would be no state of enjoyment to me. I cannot
imagine heaven without inexhaustible means of increasing knowledge and excellence.... Perhaps
in that state, dear Emily, we shall be able to find out how a mummy of the days of Memnon should
have preserved in its dead grasp a living germ for 3000 years.... [This last sentence referred
to a striking fact, which Miss Fitz Hugh's uncle, Mr. William Hamilton, told us, of a bulb
found in the sarcophagus of a mummy, which was planted, and actually began to germinate and grow.]

                                             BRANCHTOWN, May 27th, 1835.
  MY DEAREST H----,

... It is curious that in a comparatively inactive state of life, the sense of the infinite
business of living has become far more vivid to me than it ever was before; existence seems
so abounding in duties, in objects of interest and energy, in means of excellence and pleasure--happiness,
I ought rather to say,--the immense and important happiness of constant endeavor after improvement....
Dear H----, my letter was interrupted here yesterday by a visitor. I will join my thread, and
go on with a few words which I have this moment read in Hayward's Appendix to Goethe's "Faust."
When Goethe had to bear the death of his only son, he wrote to Zelter thus: "Here then can
the mighty conception of duty alone hold us erect--I have no other care than to keep myself
in equipoise. The body must, the spirit will, and he who sees a necessary path prescribed to
his will has no need to ponder much." The first part of this is noble; but I am not going to
do what I used to quarrel so much with you for doing--fill my letters with quotations, or even
make disquisitions of them; at any rate, till I have answered your last.

I am extremely vexed at all the trouble you and Emily have taken about my picture: for the
artist himself (Mr. Sully, of Philadelphia) is not satisfied with it, and I am sure would be
rather sorry than glad that it were exhibited. That artist is a charming person; and I must
tell you how he proceeded about that picture. When your letter came, acknowledging the receipt
of it, he asked how you were satisfied: I told him the truth, and what you had written on the
subject of the likeness. He did not appear stupidly annoyed, but sorry for your disappointment,
and told me that he had been from the first dissatisfied with it as a likeness, himself. He
pressed upon my acceptance for you a little melancholy head of me, an admirable and not too
much flattered likeness; but as he had given that to his wife, of whom I am very fond, of course
I would not deprive her of it; and there the matter rested. But when, some time after, some
pictures he had painted for us were paid for, he steadfastly refused the price agreed upon
for yours, because it had not satisfied him himself. He said that had you been even less pleased
with it, he should not therefore have refused the money; but his own conscience, he added,
bore witness to the truth of your objections, and when that was the case, he invariably acted
in the same way, and declined to receive payment for what he didn't consider worth it. As he
is our friend, we could not press the money upon him; but we have got him to undertake a portrait
of Dr. Mease, and I have added sundry grains more to my regard for him. As to the likeness,
had you seen me about three months after my marriage, you would have thought better of it.
[The portrait in question, painted for my friend, and now, I believe, still at Ardgillan Castle,
was one of six that my friend, Mr. Sully, painted of me at various times, the best likeness
of them all being one that he took of me in the part of Beatrice, for which I did not sit.]
You talk of "nailing me down," to send me to the Academy, and the expression brought a sudden
shuddering recollection to my mind of the dismal night I passed in Boston packing up our stage
clothes in dear Dall's bedroom while she was lying in her coffin. I know not why your words
recalled that miserable circumstance to me, and all the mingled feelings that accompanied such
an occupation in such company....

You ask me if I do not love the country as I used to do. Indeed I do; for, like all best good
things, it seems the lovelier for near and intimate acquaintance. Yet the country here, and
this place in particular, is not to me what it might be, and will be yet. This place is not
ours, and during the life of an old Miss B. will not belong to us: this, of course, keeps my
spirit of improvement in check, and indeed, even if it were made over to us, with signing and
sealing and all due legal ceremonies, I should still feel some delicacy in making wholesale
alterations in a place which an elderly person, to whom it has belonged, remembers such as
it is for many years.

The absolute absence of all taste in matters of ornamental cultivation is lamentably evident
in the country dwellings of rich and poor alike, as far as I have yet seen in this neighborhood.
No natural beauty seems to be perceived and taken advantage of, no defect hidden or adorned;
proximity to the road, for obvious purposes of mere convenience, seems to have been the one
idea in the selection of building sites; and straight, ungraveled paths, straight rows of trees,
straight strips of coarse grass, straight box borders, dividing straight narrow flower-beds,
the prevailing idea of a garden; together with a deplorable dearth of flowers, shrubberies,
ornamental trees, and everything that really deserves the name.

Good-bye, and God bless you.

                              Ever, as ever, yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The country between the Wissihiccon and Pennipack--two small
    picturesque streams flowing, the one into the Schuylkill, the other
    into the Delaware--is a prosperous farming region, with a pleasingly
    varied, undulating surface, the arable land diversified with
    stretches of pretty wild woodland, watered by numerous small
    water-courses, and divided by the main highroad, once the chief
    channel of communication between New York and Philadelphia.

    Six miles from the latter city, at a village called Branchtown, and
    only a few yards from the road, stood my home; and it would be
    difficult for those who do not remember "the old York road," as it
    was called, and the country between that and Germantown, in the days
    when these letters were written, to imagine the change which nearly
    fifty years have produced in the whole region.

    No one who now sees the pretty populous villadom which has grown up
    in every direction round the home of my early married years--the
    neat cottages and cheerful country houses, the trim lawns and bright
    flower-gardens, the whole well laid out, tastefully cultivated, and
    carefully tended suburban district, with its attractive dwellings,
    could easily conceive the sort of abomination of desolation which
    its aspect formerly presented to eyes accustomed to the finish and
    perfection of rural English landscape.

    Between five and six miles of hideous and execrable turnpike road,
    without shade, and aridly detestable in the glare, heat, and dust of
    summer, and almost dangerously impassable in winter, made driving
    into Philadelphia an undertaking that neither love, friendship, nor
    pleasure--nothing but inexorable business or duty--reconciled one
    to. The cross roads in every direction were a mere succession of
    heavy, dusty, sandy pitfalls, or muddy quagmires, where, on foot or
    on horseback, rapid progress was equally impossible. The whole
    region, from the very outskirts of the city to the beautiful crest
    of Chestnut Hill, overlooking its wide expanse of smiling foreground
    and purple distant horizon, was then, with its mean-looking
    scattered farm-houses and huge ungainly barns (whatever may have
    been its agricultural merits), uninteresting and uninviting in all
    the human elements of the landscape, dreary in summer and dismal in
    winter, and absolutely void of the civilized cheerful charm that now
    characterizes it.

    Per contra, it then was country, and now is suburb: there were
    woods and lanes where now there are stations and railroads, and the
    solitude of rural walks and rides instead of the "continuation of
    the city" which has now cut up and laid waste the old Stenton
    estate, and threatens the fields of Butler Place and the lovely and
    beloved woods of Champlost, and will presently convert that whole
    neighborhood into a mere appendage of Philadelphia, wildly driven
    over by city rowdies with fast-trotting teams or mad, gigantic
    daddy-long-legs-looking sulkies, and perambulated by tramps
    pretending poverty and practicing theft.]

                                                       BRANCHTOWN, 1835.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

I have not written to you since I received a most interesting and delightful letter of yours
from Saxe-Weimar, containing an account of your stay in Goethe's house. My answering you at
all is a movement of gratitude for your kindness in remembering me in the midst of such surroundings,
and nothing but my faith in your desire to hear something of me would induce me to send into
the world of romantic and poetic associations you are now inhabiting, any dispatch from this
most prosaic and commonplace world of my adoption.

I think, however, it will please you to hear that I am well and happy, and that my whole state
of life and being has assumed a placid, tranquil, serene, and even course, which, after the
violent excitements of my last few years, is both agreeable and wholesome. I should think,
ever since my coming out on the stage, I must have lived pretty much at the rate of three years
in every one--I mean in point of physical exertion and exhaustion. The season of my repose
is, however, arrived, and it seems almost difficult to imagine that, after beginning life in
such a tumult of action and excitement, the remainder of my years is lying stretched before
me, like a level, peaceful landscape, through which I shall saunter leisurely towards my grave.
This is the pleasant probable future: God only knows what changes and chances may sweep across
the smiling prospect, but at present, according to the calculations of mere human foresight,
none are likely to arise. As I write these words, I do bethink me of one quarter from which
our present prosperous and peaceful existence might receive a shock--the South. The family
into which I have married are large slaveholders; our present and future fortune depend greatly
upon extensive plantations in Georgia. But the experience of every day, besides our faith in
the great justice of God, forbids dependence on the duration of the mighty abuse by which one
race of men is held in abject physical and mental slavery by another. As for me, though the
toilsome earning of my daily bread were to be my lot again to-morrow, I should rejoice with
unspeakable thankfulness that we had not to answer for what I consider so grievous a sin against
humanity.

I believe many years will not pass before this cry ceases to go up from earth to heaven. The
power of opinion is working silently and strongly in the hearts of men; the majority of people
in the North of this country are opposed to the theory of slavery, though they tolerate its
practice in the South: and though the natural selfishness with which men cling to their interests
is only at present increasing the vigilance of the planters in guarding their property and
securing their prey, it is a property which is crumbling under their feet, and a prey which
is escaping from their grasp; and perhaps, before many years are gone by, the black population
of the South will be free, and we comparatively poor people--Amen! with all my heart....

I had hoped to revisit England before the winter, ... but this cannot be, and I shall certainly
not see England this year, if ever again.... I think women in England are gradually being done
justice to, and many sources of goodness, usefulness, and happiness, that have hitherto been
sealed, are opened to them now, by a truer and more generous public feeling, and more enlightened
views of education.

I saw a good deal of Harriet Martineau, and liked her very much indeed, in spite of her radicalism.
She is gone to the South, where I think she cannot fail to do some good, if only in giving
another impulse to the stone that already topples on the brink--I mean in that miserable matter
of slavery.

                              Yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [No more striking instance can be given of the rapidity of movement,
    if not of progress, of American public opinion, than the so-called
    "Woman's Rights" question. When these letters were written, scarcely
    a whisper had made itself heard upon this and its relative subjects:
    the "Female Suffrage" was neither demanded nor desired; Margaret
    Fuller had not made public her views upon the condition of "Woman in
    the Nineteenth Century"; the different legislatures of the different
    States had not found it expedient to enact statutes securing to
    married women the independent use of their own property, and women's
    legal disabilities were, in every respect, much the same in the
    United States as in the mother country. Now, however, so great and
    rapid has been the change of public opinion in this direction in
    America, that in some of the States married women may not only
    possess and inherit property over which their husbands have no
    control, but their personal earnings have been so secured to them
    that neither their husbands nor their husbands' creditors can touch
    them; while at the same time, strange to say, their husbands are
    still liable for their support, and answerable for any debts they
    may contract, and men must pay these independent ladies' milliners'
    bills, if all these additional rights have not brought with them
    some additional sense of justice, honesty, and old-fashioned right
    and wrong.

    This amazing consideration for the property claims of women is not,
    however, without its possible advantages for the magnanimous sex
    bestowing it; and unprincipled speculators, gamblers, in pursuits
    calling themselves business, but in reality mere games of chance,
    may now secure themselves from the ruin they deserve, and have
    incurred, by settling upon their wives large sums of money, or
    estates, which, by virtue of the women's independent legal tenure of
    property, effectually enable their husbands to baffle the claims of
    their creditors. Every use has its abuse. The melancholy process of
    divorce, by which an insupportable yoke may be dissolved with the
    sanction of the law, is achieved in America with a facility and upon
    grounds inadmissible for that purpose in England. Pennsylvania has
    long followed the German practice in this particular, allowing
    divorce, in cases of non-cohabitation for a space of two years, to
    either party claiming it upon those grounds; in some of the Western
    States the ease with which divorces are obtained is untrammeled by
    any condition but that of a sufficient term of residence, often a
    very brief one, within the State jurisdiction.

    Women lecture upon all imaginable subjects, and are listened to,
    whether treating of the right of their sex to the franchise, or the
    more unapproachable theme of its degraded misery in the public
    prostitution legally practiced in all the cities of this great New
    World, or the frantic vagaries of their theory of so-called Free
    Love. They are professors in colleges, practicing physicians; not
    yet, I believe, ordained clergywomen (the Quakers admit the female
    right to preach without the ceremony of laying on of hands), or
    admitted members of the bar; but it is difficult to imagine society
    existing at all under more absolute conditions of freedom for its
    female members than the women of the United States now enjoy. It is
    a pity that the use sometimes made of so many privileges forms a
    powerful argument to reasonable people in other countries against
    their possession.[3]]

        [3] I have learned since writing the above that in some of the
        Western States and cities--among others, I believe,
        Chicago--women are now practicing lawyers. A "legal lady" made
        at one time, I know not how successfully, an attempt to become a
        received member of the profession in Washington. In this, as in
        all other matters, the several States exercise uncontrolled
        jurisdiction within their own borders, and the Western States
        are naturally inclined to favor by legislation all attempts of
        this description; they are essentially the "New World." In the
        Eastern States European traditions still influence opinion, and
        women are not yet admitted members of the New York bar.

                                                       BRANCHTOWN, 1835.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

It is so very long since I have written to you, that I almost fear my handwriting and signature
may be strange to your eyes and memory alike. As, however, silence can hardly be more than
a passive sin--a sin of omission, not commission--I hope they will not be unwelcome to you.
I am desirous you should still preserve towards me some of your old kindliness of feeling,
for I wish to borrow some of it for the person who will carry this letter over the Atlantic--a
very interesting young friend of mine, who begged of me, as a great favor, a letter of introduction
to you.... I think you will find that had she fallen in your way unintroduced, she would have
recommended herself to your liking. [The lady in question was Miss Appleton, of Boston, afterwards
Mrs. Robert Mackintosh, whose charming sister, cut off by too sad and premature a doom, was
the wife of the poet Longfellow.]

And now, what shall I tell you? After so long a silence, I suppose you think I ought to have
plenty to say, yet I have not. What should a woman write about, whose sole occupations are
eating, drinking, and sleeping; whose pleasures consist in nursing her baby, and playing with
a brace of puppies; and her miseries in attempting to manage six republican servants--a task
quite enough to make any "Quaker kick his mother," a grotesque illustration of demented desperation,
which I have just learned, and which is peculiarly appropriate in these parts? Can I find it
in my conscience, or even in the nib of my pen, to write you all across the great waters that
my child has invented two teeth, or how many pounds of tea, sugar, flour, etc., etc., I distribute
weekly to the above-mentioned household of unmanageables? To write, as to speak, one should
have something to say, and I have literally nothing, except that I am well in mind, body, and
estate, and hope you are so too.

Our summer has been detestable: if America had the grace to have fairies (but they don't cross
the Atlantic), I should think the little Yankee Oberon and Titania had been by the ears together:
such wintry squalls! such torrents of rain! The autumn, however, has been fine, and we spent
part of it in one of the most charming regions imaginable.

A "Happy Valley" indeed!--the Valley of the Housatonic, locked in by walls of every shape and
size, from grassy knolls to bold basaltic cliffs. A beautiful little river wanders singing
from side to side in this secluded Paradise, and from every mountain cleft come running crystal
springs to join it; it looks only fit for people to be baptized in (though I believe the water
is used for cooking and washing purposes.)

In one part of this romantic hill-region exists the strangest worship that ever the craving
need of religious excitement suggested to the imagination of human beings.

I do not know whether you have ever heard of a religious sect called the Shakers; I never did
till I came into their neighborhood: and all that was told me before seeing them fell short
of the extraordinary effect of the reality. Seven hundred men and women, whose profession of
religion has for one of its principal objects the extinguishing of the human race and the end
of the world, by devoting themselves and persuading others to celibacy and the strictest chastity.
They live all together in one community, and own a village and a considerable tract of land
in the beautiful hill country of Berkshire. They are perfectly moral and exemplary in their
lives and conduct, wonderfully industrious, miraculously clean and neat, and incredibly shrewd,
thrifty and money-making.

Their dress is hideous, and their worship, to which they admit spectators, consists of a fearful
species of dancing, in which the whole number of them engage, going round and round their vast
hall or temple of prayer, shaking their hands like the paws of a dog sitting up to beg, and
singing a deplorable psalm-tune in brisk jig time. The men without their coats, in their shirt-sleeves,
with their lank hair hanging on their shoulders, and a sort of loose knee-breeches--knickerbockers--have
a grotesque air of stage Swiss peasantry. The women without a single hair escaping from beneath
their hideous caps, mounted upon very high-heeled shoes, and every one of them with a white
handkerchief folded napkin-fashion and hanging over her arm. In summer they all dress in white,
and what with their pale, immovable countenances, their ghost-like figures, and ghastly, mad
spiritual dance, they looked like the nuns in "Robert the Devil," condemned, for their sins
in the flesh, to post-mortem decency and asceticism, to look ugly, and to dance like ill-taught
bears.

The whole exhibition was at once so frightful and so ludicrous, that I very nearly went off
into hysterics, when I first saw them.

We shall be in London, I hope, in the beginning of May next year, when I trust you will be
there also, when I will edify you with all my new experiences of life, in this "other world,"
and teach you how to dance like a Shaker. Be a good Christian, forgive me, and write to me
again, and believe me,

                              Yours truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                            BRANCHTOWN, June 27th, 1835.
  MY DEAREST H----,

... Did I tell you that the other day our farmer's wife sent me word that she had seen me walking
in the garden in a gown that she had liked very much, and wished I would let her have the pattern
of it? This message surprised me a little, but, upon due reflection, I carried the gown down
to her with an agreeable sense of my own graceful condescension. My farmer's wife gave me small
thanks, and I am sure thought I had done just what I ought....

I have resumed my riding, and am beginning to feel once more like my unmarried self. I may
have told you that I had some time ago a pretty thoroughbred mare, spirited and good tempered
too; but she turned out such an inveterate stumbler that I have been obliged to give up riding
her, as, of course, my neck is worth more to me even than my health. So, this morning I have
been taking a most delectable eight miles' trot upon a huge, high, heavy carriage-horse, who
all but shakes my soul out of my body, but who is steady upon his legs, and whom I shall therefore
patronize till I can be more genteelly mounted with safety.

You bid me study Natural Philosophy ... and ask me what I read; but since my baby has made
her entrance into the world, I neither read, write, nor cast up accounts, but am as idle, though
not nearly as well dressed, as the lilies of the field; my reading, if ever I take to such
an occupation again, is like, I fear, to be, as it always has been, rambling, desultory, and
unprofitable....

Come, I will take as a sample of my studies, the books just now lying on my table, all of which
I have been reading lately: Alfieri's Life, by himself, a curious and interesting work; Washington
Irving's last book, "A Tour on the Prairies," rather an ordinary book, upon a not ordinary
subject, but not without sufficiently interesting matter in it too; Dr. Combe's "Principles
of Physiology"; and a volume of Marlowe's plays, containing "Dr. Faustus." I have just finished
Hayward's Translation of Goethe's "Faust," and wanted to see the old English treatment of the
subject. I have read Marlowe's play with more curiosity than pleasure. This is, after all,
but a small sample of what I read; but if you remember the complexion of my studies when I
was a girl at Heath Farm, and read Jeremy Taylor and Byron together, I can only say they are
still apt to be of the same heterogeneous quality. But my brain is kept in a certain state
of activity by them, and that, I suppose, is one of the desirable results of reading. As for
writing anything, or things--good gracious! no, I should think not indeed! It is true, if you
allude to the mechanical process of caligraphy, here is close to my elbow a big book, in which
I enter all passages I meet with in my various readings tending to elucidate obscure parts
of the Bible: I do not mean disputed points of theology, mysteries, or significations more
or less mystical, but simply any notices whatever which I meet with relating to the customs
of the Jews, their history, their language, the natural features of their country; and so bearing
upon my reading of passages in the Old Testament. I read my Bible diligently every day, and
every day wish more and more earnestly that I understood what I was reading; but Philip does
not come my way, or draw near and join himself to me as I sit in my wagon.

I mean this with regard to the Old Testament only, however. The life of Christ is that portion
of the New alone vitally important to me, and that, thank God, is comparatively comprehensible.

I have just finished writing a long and vehement treatise against negro slavery, which I wanted
to publish with my Journal, but was obliged to refrain from doing so, lest our fellow-citizens
should tear our house down, and make a bonfire of our furniture--a favorite mode of remonstrance
in these parts with those who advocate the rights of the unhappy blacks.

You know that the famous Declaration of Independence, which is to all Americans what Moses
commanded God's Law to be to the Israelites, begins thus: "Whereas all men are born free and
equal." Somebody, one day, asked Jefferson how he reconciled that composition of his to the
existence of slavery in this country; he was completely surprised for a moment by the question,
and then very candidly replied, "By God! I never thought of that before."

To proceed with a list of my works. Here is an article on the writings of Victor Hugo, another
on an American book called "Confessions of a Poet," a whole heap of verses, among which sundry
doggerel epistles to you; and last, not least, the present voluminous prose performance for
your benefit.

These are some of my occupations: then I do a little housekeeping; then I do, as the French
say, a little music; then I waste a deal of time in feeding and cleaning a large cageful of
canary-birds, of which, as the pleasure is mine, I do not choose to give the rather disgustful
trouble to any one else; strolling round the garden, watching my bee-hives, which are full
of honey just now; every chink and cranny of the day between all this desultoriness, is filled
with "the baby"; and study, of every sort (but that most prodigious study of any sort, i.e.,
"the baby,") seems further off from me than ever....

I am looking forward with great pleasure to a visit we intend paying Miss Sedgwick in September.
She is a dear friend of mine, and I am very happy when with her.

And where will you be next spring, wanderer? for we shall surely be in England. [Miss St. Leger
and Miss Wilson were wintering at Nice for the health of the latter.] Will you not come back
from the ends of the earth that I may not find the turret-chamber empty, and the Dell without
its dear mistress at Ardgillan?

Dear H----, I shall surely see you, if I live, in less than a year, when we shall have so much
to say to each other that we shall not know where to begin, and had better not begin, perhaps;
for we shall know still less where to stop.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                         BRANCHTOWN, October 31st, 1835.
  MY DEAREST H----,

I wonder where this will find you, and how long it will be before it does so. I have been away
from home nearly a month, and on my return found a long letter from you waiting for me....
I cannot believe that women were intended to suffer as much as they do, and be as helpless
as they are, in child-bearing. In spite of the third chapter of Genesis, I cannot believe [the
beneficent action of ether had not yet mitigated the female portion of the primeval curse]
that all the agony and debility attendant upon the entrance of a new creature into life were
ordained; but rather that both are the consequences of our many and various abuses of our constitutions,
and infractions of God's natural laws.

The mere items of tight stays, tight garters, tight shoes, tight waistbands, tight arm-holes,
and tight bodices,--of which we are accustomed to think little or nothing, and under the bad
effects of which, most young women's figures are suffered to attain their growth, both here
and in civilized Europe,--must have a tendency to injure irreparably the compressed parts,
to impede circulation and respiration, and in many ways which we are not aware of, as well
as by the more obvious evils which they have been proved to produce, destroy the health of
the system, affect disastrously all its functions, and must aggravate the pains and perils
of child-bearing.... Many women here, when they become mothers, seem to lose looks, health,
and strength, and are mere wrecks, libels upon the great Creator's most wonderful contrivance,
the human frame, which, in their instance, appears utterly unfit for the most important purpose
for which He designed it. Pitiable women! comparatively without enjoyment or utility in existence.
Of course, this result is attributable to many various causes, and admits of plenty of individual
exceptions, but I believe tight-lacing, want of exercise, and a perpetual inhaling of over-heated
atmosphere, to be among the former.... They pinch their pretty little feet cruelly, which certainly
need no such embellishment, and, of course, cannot walk; and if they did, in the state of compression
to which they submit for their beauty's sake, would suffer too much inconvenience, if not pain,
to derive any benefit from exercise under such conditions....

When one thinks of the tragical consequences of all this folly, one is tempted to wish that
the legislature would interfere in these matters, and prevent the desperate injury which is
thus done to the race. The climate, which is the general cause assigned for the want of health
of the American women, seems to me to receive more than its due share of blame. The Indian
women, the squaws, are, I believe, remarkable for the ease with which they bear their children,
the little pain they suffer comparatively, and the rapidity with which they regain their strength;
but I think in matters of diet, dress, exercise, regularity in eating, and due ventilation
of their houses, the Americans have little or no regard for the laws of health; and all these
causes have their share in rendering the women physically incapable of their natural work,
and unequal to their natural burdens.

What a chapter on American female health I have treated you to!... Sometimes I write to you
what I think, and sometimes what I do, and still it seems to me it is the thing I have not
written about which you desire to know.... You ask if I am going through a course of Channing,--not
precisely, but a course of Unitarianism, for I attend a Unitarian Church. I did so at first
by accident (is there such a thing?), being taken thither by the people to whom I now belong,
who are of that mode of thinking and have seats in a church of that denomination, and where
I hear admirable instruction and exhortation, and eloquent, excellent preaching, that does
my soul good.... I am acquainted with several clergymen of that profession, who are among the
most enlightened and cultivated men I have met with in this country. Of course, these circumstances
have had some effect upon my mind, but they have rather helped to develop, than positively
cause, the result you have observed....

In reading my Bible--my written rule of life--I find, of course, much that I have no means
of understanding, and much that there are no means of understanding, matters of faith.... Doctrinal
points do not seem to me to avail much here: how much they may signify hereafter, who can tell?
But the daily and hourly discharge of our duties, the purity, humanity, and activity of our
lives, do avail much here; all that we can add to our own worth and each other's happiness
is of evident, palpable, present avail, and I believe will prove of eternal avail to our souls,
who may carry hence all they have gained in this mortal school to as much higher, nobler, and
happier a sphere as the just judgment of Almighty God shall after death promote them to....

I have been for the last two days discharging a most vexatious species of duty--vexatious,
to be sure, chiefly from my own fault. We have a household of six servants, and no housekeeper
(such an official being unknown in these parts); a very abundant vegetable garden, dairy, and
poultry-yard; but I have been very neglectful lately of all domestic details of supply from
these various sources, and the consequences have been manifold abuses in the kitchen, the pantry,
and the store-room; and disorder and waste, more disgraceful to me, even, than to the people
immediately guilty of them. And I have been reproaching myself, and reproving others, and heartily
regretting that, instead of Italian and music, I had not learned a little domestic economy,
and how much bread, butter, flour, eggs, milk, sugar, and meat ought to be consumed per week
in a family of eight persons, not born ogres.... I am sorry to find that my physical courage
has been very much shaken by my confinement. Whereas formerly I scarcely knew the sensation
of fear, I have grown almost cowardly on horseback or in a carriage. I do not think anybody
would ever suspect that to be the case, but I know it in my secret soul, and am much disgusted
with myself in consequence.... Our horses ran away with the carriage the other day, and broke
the traces, and threatened us with some frightful catastrophe. I had the child with me, and
though I did not lose my wits at all, and neither uttered sound nor gave sign of my terror,
after getting her safely out of the carriage and alighting myself I shook from head to foot,
for the first time in my life, with fear; and so have only just attained my full womanhood:
for what says Shakespeare?--

    "A woman naturally born to fears."

... God bless you, dearest friend.

                              I am ever yours affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

... I was at first a little disappointed that my baby was not a man-child, for the lot of woman
is seldom happy, owing principally, I think, to the many serious mistakes which have obtained
universal sway in female education. I do not believe that the just Creator intended one part
of his creatures to lead the sort of lives that many women do.... In this country the difficulty
of giving a girl a good education is even greater, I am afraid, than with us, in some respects.
I do not think even accomplishments are well taught here; at least, they seem to me for the
most part very flimsy, frivolous, and superficial, poor alike both in quality and quantity.
More solid acquirements do not abound among my female acquaintance either, and the species
of ignorance one encounters occasionally is so absolute and profound as to be almost amusing,
and quite curious; while there is, also, quite enough native shrewdness, worldly acuteness,
and smattering of shallow superficial reading, to produce a result which is worthless and vulgar
to a pitiable degree. Of course there are exceptions to this narrowness and aridity of intellectual
culture, but either they are really rare exceptions, or I have been especially unfortunate....

My dear Dorothy, this letter was begun three months ago; I mislaid it, and in the vanity of
my imagination, believed that I had finished and sent it; and lo! yesterday it turns up--a
fragment of which the Post Office is still innocent: and after all, 'tis a nonsense letter,
to send galloping the wild world over after you. It seems hardly worth while to put the poor
empty creature to the trouble of being sea-sick, and going so far. However, I know it will
not be wholly worthless to you if it brings you word of my health and happiness, both of which
are as good as any reasonable human mortal can expect....

Kiss dear Harriet for me, and believe me,

                              Very affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                            BRANCHTOWN, March 1st, 1836.
  DEAREST H----,

Are you conjecturing as to the fate of three letters which you have written to me from the
Continent? all of which I have duly received, I speak it with sorrow and shame; and certainly
'tis no proof that my affection is still the same for you, dear H----, that I have not been
able to rouse myself to the effort of writing to you.... You will ask if my baby affords me
no employment? Yes, endless in prospect and theory, dear H----; but when people talk of a baby
being such an "occupation," they talk nonsense, such an idleness, they ought to say, such an
interruption to everything like reasonable occupation, and to any conversation but baby-talk....

You ask of my society. I have none whatever: we live six miles from town, on a road almost
impracticable in the fairest as well as the foulest weather, and though people occasionally
drive out and visit me, and I occasionally drive in and return their calls, and we semi-occasionally,
at rare intervals, go in to the theatre, or a dance, I have no friends, no intimates, and no
society.

Were I living in Philadelphia, I should be but little better off; for though, of course, there,
as elsewhere, the materials for good society exist, yet all the persons whom I should like
to cultivate are professionally engaged, and their circumstances require, apparently, that
they should be so without intermission; and they have no time, and, it seems, but little taste
for social enjoyment.

There is here no rich and idle class: there are two or three rich and idle individuals, who
have neither duties nor influence peculiar to their position, which isolates without elevating
them; and who, as might be expected in such a state of things, are the least respectable members
of the community. The only unprofessional man that I know in Philadelphia (and he studied,
though he does not practice, medicine) who is also a person of literary taste and acquirement,
has lamented to me that all his early friends and associates having become absorbed in their
several callings, whenever he visits them he feels that he is diverting them from the labor
of their lives, and the earning of their daily bread.

No one that I belong to takes the slightest interest in literary pursuits; and though I feel
most seriously how desirable it is that I should study, because I positively languish for intellectual
activity, yet what would under other circumstances be a natural pleasure, is apt to become
an effort and a task when those with whom one lives does not sympathize with one's pursuits....
Without the stimulus of example, emulation, companionship, or sympathy, I find myself unable
to study with any steady purpose; however, in the absence of internal vigor, I have borrowed
external support, and on Monday next I am going to begin to read Latin with a master.... Any
pursuit to which I am compelled will be very welcome to me, and I have chosen that in preference
to German, as mentally more bracing, and therefore healthier.

I have already described what calls itself my garden here--three acres of kitchen-garden, and
a quarter of an acre of flower-garden, divided into three straight strips, bordered with mangy
box, and separated from the vegetables by a white-washed paling. I am the more provoked with
this, because there are certain capabilities about the place; money is spent in keeping it
up, and three men, entitled gardeners, are constantly at work on it; and it is not want of
means, but of taste and knowledge and care, that makes it what it is. The piece of coarse grass
dignified by the name of a lawn, in front of the house, is mowed twice in the whole course
of the summer; of course, during the interval, it looks as if we were raising a crop of poor
hay under our drawing-room windows. However, the gardening of Heaven is making the whole earth
smile just now; and the lights and shadows of the sky, and wild flowers and verdure of the
woods are beneficently beautiful, and make my spirit sing for joy, in spite of the little that
men have done here gratefully to improve Heaven's gifts. This is not audacious, for Adam and
Eve landscape-gardened in Paradise, you know; and I wish some little of their craft were to
be found among their descendants hereabouts.

My paper is at an end: do I tell you "nothing of my mind and soul"? What, then, is all this
that I have been writing? Is it not telling you more than if I were to attempt to detail to
you methodically, circumstantially (and perhaps unconsciously quite falsely), the state of
either?...

I am expecting a visit from Dr. Channing, whom I love and revere. After reading a sermon of
his before going to bed the other night, I dreamt towards morning that I was in Heaven, from
whence I was literally pulled down and awakened to get up and go to church, which, you will
allow, was a ridiculous instance of bathos and work of supererogation. But, dear me, that dream
was very pleasant! Rising, and rising, and rising, into ever-increasing light and space, not
with effort and energy, as if flying, but calmly and steadily soaring, as if one's property
was to float upwards, mounting eternally. I send you my dream across the Atlantic; there is
something of my "mind and soul" in that.

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [After my first introduction to Dr. Channing, I never was within
    reach of him without enjoying the honor of his intercourse and the
    privilege of hearing him preach. I think he was nowhere seen or
    heard to greater advantage than at his cottage near Newport, in the
    neighborhood of which a small church afforded the high advantage of
    his instruction to a rural congregation, as different as possible
    from the highly cultivated Bostonians who flocked to hear him
    whenever his state of health permitted him to preach in the city.

    King's Chapel, as it originally was called, dating back to days when
    the colony of Massachusetts still acknowledged a king, was dedicated
    at first to the Episcopal service of the Church of England, and I
    believe the English Liturgy in some form was the only ritual used in
    it. But when I first went to America, Boston and the adjacent
    College, Cambridge, were professedly Unitarian, and the service in
    King's Chapel was such a modification of the English Liturgy as was
    compatible with that profession: a circumstance which enabled its
    frequenters to unite the advantage of Dr. Channing's eloquent
    preaching with the use of that book of prayer and praise unsurpassed
    and unsurpassable in its simple sublimity and fervid depth of
    devotion.

    I retain a charmingly comical remembrance of the last visit I paid
    Dr. Channing, at Newport; when, wishing to take me into his garden,
    and unwilling to keep me waiting while he muffled himself up,
    according to his necessary usual precautions, he caught up Mrs.
    Channing's bonnet and shawl, and sheltering his eyes from the glare
    of the sun by pulling the bonnet well down over his nose, and
    folding the comfortable female-wrap (it was a genuine woman's-shawl,
    and not an ambiguous plaid of either or no sex) well over his
    breast, he walked round and round his garden, in full view of the
    high-road, discoursing with the peculiar gentle solemnity and
    deliberate eloquence habitual to him, on subjects the gravity of
    which was in laughable contrast with his costume, the absurdity of
    which only made me smile when it recurred to my memory, after I had
    taken leave of him and ceased hearing his wise words.]

  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

... There is one interest and occupation of an essentially practical nature, such as would
give full scope to the most active energies and intellect, in which I am becoming passionately
interested,--I mean the cause of the Southern negroes.

We live by their labor; and though the estate is not yet ours (elder members of the family
having a life interest in it), it will be our property one day, and a large portion of our
income is now derived from it.

I was told the other day, that the cotton lands in Georgia, where our plantation is situated,
were exhausted; but that in Alabama there now exist wild lands along the Mississippi, where
any one possessing the negroes necessary to cultivate them, might, in the course of a few years,
realize an enormous fortune; and asked, jestingly, if I should be willing to go thither. I
replied, in most solemn earnest, that I would go with delight, if we might take that opportunity
of at once placing our slaves upon a more humane and Christian footing. Oh, H----! I can not
tell you with what joy it would fill me, if we could only have the energy and courage, the
humanity and justice, to do this: and I believe it might be done.

Though the blacks may not be taught to read and write, there is no law which can prevent one
from living amongst them, from teaching them all--and how much that is!--that personal example
and incessant personal influence can teach. I would take them there, and I would at once explain
to them my principles and my purpose: I would tell them that in so many years I expected to
be able to free them, but that those only should be liberated whose conduct I perceived during
that time would render their freedom prosperous to themselves, and safe to the community. In
the mean time I would allot each a profit on his labor; I would allow them leisure and property
of their own; I would establish a Savings Bank for them, so that at the end of their probation,
those into whom I had been able to instill industrious and economical habits should be possessed
of a small fund wherewith to begin the world; I would remain there myself always, and, with
God's assistance and blessing, I do believe a great good might be done. How I wish--oh, how
I wish we might but make the experiment! I believe in my soul that this is our peculiar duty
in life. We all have some appointed task, and assuredly it can never be that we, or any other
human beings were created merely to live surrounded with plenty, blessed with every advantage
of worldly circumstance, and the ties of happy social and domestic relations,--it cannot be
that anybody ought to have all this, and yet do nothing for it; nor do I believe that any one's
duties are bounded by the half-animal instincts of loving husband, wife, or children, and the
negative virtue of wronging no man: besides we are villainously wronging many men.... What
would I not give to be able to awaken in others my own feeling of this heavy responsibility!

I have just done reading Dr. Channing's book on slavery; it is like everything else of his,
written in the pure spirit of Christianity, with judgment, temper and moderation, yet with
abundant warmth and energy. It has been answered with some cleverness, but in a sneering, satirical
tone, I hear. I have not yet read this reply, but intend doing so; though it matters little
what is said by the defenders of such a system: truth is God, and must prevail.

Enough of this side of the water. Your wanderings abroad, dear H----, created a feeling of
many mingled melancholies in my mind: in the first place, you are so very, very far off, the
dead seem scarcely further; perhaps they indeed are nearer to us, for I believe we are surrounded
by "a cloud of witnesses." Your description of those southern lands is sad to me. I have always
had a passionate yearning for those regions where man has been so glorious, and Nature is so
still. I thought of your various emotions at my uncle's grave at Lausanne. Life seems to me
so strange, that the chain of events which forms even the most commonplace existence has, in
its unexpectedness, something of the marvelous.

I rejoice that dear Dorothy is benefited by your traveling, and pray for every blessing on
you both. As to the possibility of my coming to England and not finding you there, my dear
H----; I can say nothing and you must do what you think right.

God bless you.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The ideas and expectations, with which I entered upon my Northern
    country life, near Philadelphia, were impossible of fulfillment, and
    simply ridiculous under the circumstances. Those with which I
    contemplated an existence on our Southern estate, or the new one
    suggested in this letter, in the State of Alabama, were not only
    ridiculously impossible, but would speedily have found their only
    result in the ruin, danger, and very probably death, of all
    concerned in the endeavor to realize them.

    The laws of the Southern States would certainly have been
    forestalled by the speedier action of lynch-law, in putting a stop
    to my experimental abolitionism. And I am now able to understand,
    and appreciate, what, when I wrote this letter, I had not the
    remotest suspicion of,--the amazement and dismay, the terror and
    disgust, with which such theories as those I have expressed in it
    must have filled every member of the American family with which my
    marriage had connected me; I must have appeared to them nothing but
    a mischievous madwoman.]

                                           BRANCHTOWN, March 28th, 1836.
  MY DEAREST H----,

You say that thinking of you makes me fancy that I have written to you: not quite so, for no
day passes with me without many thoughts of you, and I certainly am well aware that I do not
write to you daily.... But, dearest H----, once for all, believe this: whether I am silent
altogether, or simply unsatisfactory in my communications, I love you dearly, and hope for
a happier intercourse with you,--if never here--hereafter, in that more perfect state, where,
endowed with higher natures, our communion with those we love will, I believe, be infinitely
more intimate than it can be here, subject as it is to all the imperfections of our present
existence.

You laugh at me for what you consider my optimism, my incredulity with regard to the evils
of this present life, and seem to think I am making out a case of no little absurdity in ascribing
so much of what we suffer to ourselves. But I do not think my view of the matter is altogether
visionary. Even from disease and death, those stern and inexorable conditions of our present
state, spring, as from bitter roots, some of the sweetest virtues of which our nature is capable;
and I do not believe it to be the great and good God's appointment that the earth should be
loaded as it is with barren suffering and sorrow. And as to believing that women were intended
to lead the helpless, ailing, sickly, unprofitable, and unpleasurable lives, which so many
of them seem to lead in this country, I think it would be a direct libel on our Creator to
profess such a creed....

I walked into town, the other day, a distance of only six miles, and was very much tired by
the expedition: to be sure I am not a good walker, riding being my natural exercise, in which
I persist, in spite of stumbling and shying horses, high-roads three feet deep in dust, and
by-roads three feet deep in mud, at one and the same time. Taking exercise has become, instead
of a pleasure, a sometimes rather irksome duty to me; a lonely ride upon a disagreeable horse
not being a great enjoyment; but I know that my health has its reward, and I persevere....

The death of an elderly lady puts us in possession of our property, which she had held in trust
during her life.... Increase of fortune brings necessarily increased responsibility and occupation,
and for that I am not sorry, though the circumstance of the death of this relation, of whom
I knew and had seen but little, has been fruitful in disappointments to me.... In the first
place, I have been obliged to forego a visit from my delightful friend, Miss Sedgwick, who
was coming to spend some time with me; this, in my lonely life, is a real privation. In the
next place, our proposed voyage to England is indefinitely postponed, and from a thing so near
as to be reckoned a certainty (for we were to have sailed the 20th of next month), it has withdrawn
itself into the misty regions of a remote futurity, of the possible events of which we cannot
even guess....

We have had a most unprecedented winter; the cold has been dreadful, and the snow, even now,
in some places, lies in drifts from three to five feet deep. There is no spring here; the winter
is with us to-day, and to-morrow the heat will be oppressive; and in a week everything will
be like summer, without the full-fledged foliage to temper the glare.

I have taken up your letter to see if there are any positive questions in it, that I may not
this time be guilty of not replying to you while I answer it....

I do not give up my music quite, but generally, after dinner, pass an hour at the piano, not
so much from the pleasure it now gives me, as from the conviction that it is wrong to give
up even the smallest of our resources; and also because, as wise Goethe says, "We are too apt
to suffer the mean things of life to overgrow the finer nature within us, therefore it is expedient
that at least once a day we read a little poetry, or sing a song, or look at a picture." Upon
this principle, I still continue to play and sing sometimes, but no longer with any great pleasure
to myself.

Good-bye, dearest H----.... Oh, I should like to see you once again!

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                            BRANCHTOWN, July 31st, 1836.
  MY DEAREST H----,

You ask me if I do not write anything; yes, sometimes reviews, for which I am solicited. It
is an occupation, but returns neither reputation, the articles being anonymous; nor remuneration,
as they are also gratuitous; and I do it without much interest, simply not to be idle. As to
anything of more literary pretension, I never shall attempt it again: I do not think nature
intended mothers to be authors of anything but their babies; because, as I told you, though
a baby is not an "occupation," it is an absolute hindrance to everything else that can be called
so. I cannot read a book through quietly for mine; judge, therefore, how little likely I am
to write one....

You ask me if I take no pleasure in gardening; and suggest the cutting of carnations and raising
of lettuce, as wholesome employments for me. The kitchen-garden is really the only well-attended-to
horticulture of this place. The gardener raises early lettuces and cauliflowers in frames,
which remunerate him, either by their sale in market or by prizes that he may obtain for them.
His zeal in floriculture is less; as you will understand, when I tell you that, discovering
some early violets blowing along a sunny wall in the kitchen-garden, and seizing joyfully upon
them, with reproaches to him for not having let me know that there were any, he replied--"letting
fall a lip of much contempt,"--"Well, ma'am, I quite forgot them violets. You see, them flowers
is such frivolous creatures." Profane fellow!

I spend generally about three hours a day pottering in my garden, but, alas! my gardening consists
chiefly of slaughter. The heat of the climate generates the most enormous quantity of insects,
for the effectual prevention or destruction of which the gardeners in these parts have yet
discovered no means. The consequence is that, in spite of my daily executions, every shrub
and every flower-bush is fuller of bugs (so they here indiscriminately term these displeasing
beasts) than of leaves. They begin by eating up the roses bodily (these are called distinctively,
rose-bugs; of course, they have a pet name, but it's Latin, and is only used by their familiars);
they then attack and devour the large white lilies, and honeysuckles; finally, they spread
themselves impartially all over the garden, and having literally stripped that bare, are now
attacking the fruit. It is an insect which I have never seen in England; a species of beetle,
much smaller, but not unlike the cockchafer we are familiar with. Their number is really prodigious,
and they seem to me to propagate with portentous rapidity, for every day, in spite of the sweeping
made by the gardener and myself, they appear as thick as ever. But for the dread of their coming
in still greater force next year, if we do not continue our work of extermination, I should
almost be tempted to give it up in despair.

I have a few flower-beds that I have had made, and keep under my own especial care; also some
pretty baskets, which I have had expressly manufactured with exceeding difficulty; these, filled
with earth, and planted with roses, I have placed on the stumps of some large trees, which
were cut down last spring and form nice rustic pedestals; and thus I contrive to produce something
of an English garden effect. But the climate is against me. The winter is so terribly cold
that nothing at all delicate can stand it unless cased up in straw-matting and manure. We have,
therefore, no evergreen shrubs, such as the lauristinus, and Portugal and variegated laurels,
which form our English garden shrubberies; nor do they seem to replace these by the native
growth of their own woods, the kalmias and rhododendrons, but principally by hardy evergreens
of the fir and pine species, which are native and abundant here. Then, with scarcely any interval
of spring to moderate the sudden extreme change, the winter becomes summer--summer, without
its screen of thick leaves to shelter one from the blazing, scorching heat. Everything starts
into bloom, as it were, at once; and, instead of lasting even their proverbially short date
of beauty, the flowers vanish as suddenly as they appeared, under the fierce influence of the
heat and the devastations of the swarming insects it engenders.

To make up for this, I have here almost an avenue of fine lemon-trees, in cases; humming-birds,
which are a marvel and enchantment to me; and fire-flies, which are exquisite in the summer
evenings.

I have, too, a fine hive of bees, which has produced already this spring two strong young swarms,
whose departure from the parent hive formed a very interesting event in my novel experiences;
especially as one of the stablemen, who joined the admiring domestic crowd witnessing the process,
proved to be endowed with the immunity some persons have from the stings of those insects,
and was able to take them by handfuls from the tree where they were clinging, and put them
on the stand where the bee-hive prepared for them was placed. I had read of this individual
peculiarity with the incredulity of ignorance (incomparably stronger than that of knowledge);
but seeing is believing, and when my fiery-haired Irish groom seized the bees by the handful,
of course there was no denying the fact.

There is a row of large old acacia-trees near the house, inhabited by some most curious ants,
who are gradually hollowing the trees out. I can hear them at work as I stand by the poor vegetables,
and the grass all round is literally whitened with the fine sawdust made by these hard-working
little carpenters. The next phenomenon will be that the trees will tumble on my head, while
I am pursuing my entomological studies. [To avert this catastrophe, the trees had all to be
cut down].... Dear H----, I never contemplated sacrificing my child's, or anybody else's, health
to my desire for "doing good." There is a difference between living all the year round on a
rice-swamp, and retiring during the summer to the pinewood highlands, which are healthy, even
in the hot season; nor am I at all inclined to advocate the neglect of duties close at hand
for quixotical devotion to remote ones. But you must remember that we are slave owners, and
live by slave-labor, and if the question of slavery does not concern us, in God's name whom
does it concern? In my conviction, that is our special concern.... There is a Convention about
to meet at Harrisburg, the seat of Government of this State, Pennsylvania, for the election
of Van Buren, the Democratic candidate for the Presidency....

The politics of this country are in a strange, uncertain state, but I have left myself no room
to enlarge upon them.

I have just finished reading Judge Talfourd's "Ion," and Lamartine's "Pélérinage" to Palestine.
God bless you, dearest H----.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Sydney Smith said that he never desired to live in a hot climate,
    as he disliked the idea of processions of ants traversing his bread
    and butter. The month of June had hardly begun in the year 1874,
    when I was residing close to the home of my early married life,
    Butler Place, when the ants appeared in such numbers in the
    dining-room sideboards, closets, cupboards, etc., that we were
    compelled to isolate all cakes, biscuits, sugar, preserves, fruit,
    and whatever else was kept in them, by placing the vessels
    containing all such things in dishes of water--moats, in fact, by
    which the enemy was cut off from these supplies. Immediately to
    these succeeded swarms of fire-flies, beautiful and wonderful in
    their evening apparition of showers of sparks from every bush and
    shrub, and after sunset rising in hundreds from the grass, and
    glittering against the dark sky as if the Milky Way had gone mad and
    taken to dancing; but even these shining creatures were not pleasant
    in the house by day, where they were merely like ill-shaped ugly
    black flies. These were followed by a world of black beetles of
    every size and shape, with which our room was alive as soon as the
    lights were brought in the evening. Net curtains, and muslin
    stretched over wooden frames, and fixed like blinds in the
    window-sashes, did indeed keep out the poor mouthful of stifling air
    for which we were gasping, but did not exclude these intolerable
    visitors, who made their way in at every crack and crevice and
    momentarily opened door, and overran with a dreadful swiftness the
    floor of the room in every direction; occasionally taking to the
    more agreeable exercise of flying, at which, however, they did not
    seem quite expert, frequently tumbling down and struggling by twos
    and threes upon one's hair, neck, and arms, and especially attracted
    to unfortunate females by white or light-colored muslin gowns, which
    became perfect receptacles for them as they rushed and rattled over
    the matting. After the reign of the beetles came that of the flies,
    a pest to make easily credible the ancient story of the Egyptian
    plague. Every picture and looking-glass frame, every morsel of
    gilding, every ornamental piece of metal about the rooms, had to be
    covered, like the tarts in a confectioner's shop, with yellow gauze;
    whatever was not so protected--unglazed photographs, the surface of
    oil pictures, necessary memoranda, and papers on one's
    writing-table--became black with the specks and spots left by these
    creatures. Plates of fly-paper poison disfigured, to but small
    purpose, every room; and at evening, by candlelight, while one was
    reading or writing, the universal hum and buzz was amazing, and put
    one in mind of the--

        "Hushed by buzzing night-flies to thy slumber"

    of poor King Henry. The walls and ceiling of the servants' offices
    and kitchen, which at the beginning of the spring had been painted
    white, and were immaculate in their purity, became literally a
    yellow-brown coffee color, darkened all over with spots as black as
    soot, with the defilement of these torments, of which three and four
    dustpanfuls a day would be swept away dead without appreciably
    diminishing their number.

    These flies accompanied our whole summer, from June till the end of
    October. Before, however, the beginning of the latter month, the
    mosquitoes made their appearance; and though, owing to the peculiar
    dryness of the summer of 1874, they were much less numerous than
    usual, there came enough of them to make our days miserable and our
    nights sleepless.

    These are the common indoor insects of a common summer in this part
    of Pennsylvania, to which should be added the occasional visits of
    spiders of such dimensions as to fill me with absolute terror; I
    have, unfortunately, a positive physical antipathy to these
    strangely-mannered animals (the only resemblance, I fear, between
    myself and Charles Kingsley), some of whose peculiarities, besides
    their infinitely dexterous and deliberate processes for ensnaring
    their prey, make them unspeakably repulsive to me,--indeed, to a
    degree that persuades me that, at some former period of my
    existence, "which, indeed, I can scarcely remember," as Rosalind
    says, I must have been a fly who perished by spider-craft.

    It is not, however, only in these midland and comparatively warmer
    states of North America that this profusion of insect life is found;
    the heat of the summer, even in Massachusetts, is more than a match
    in its life-engendering force, for the destructive agency of the
    winter's cold; and in the woods, on the high hill-tops of Berkshire,
    spiders of the most enormous size abound. I found two on my own
    place, the extremities of whose legs could not be covered by a large
    inverted tumbler; one of these perfectly swarmed with parasitical
    small spiders, a most hideous object! and one day, on cutting down a
    hollow pine tree, my gardener called me to look at a perfect jet of
    white ants, which like a small fountain, welled up from the middle
    of the decayed stump, and flowed over it in a thick stream to the
    ground. As far north as Lenox, in Berkshire, the summer heat brings
    humming-birds and rattlesnakes; and of less deadly, but very little
    less disagreeable, serpent-beasts, I have encountered there no fewer
    than eight, in a short mile walk, on a warm September morning,
    genial even for snakes.

    The succession of creatures I have enumerated is the normal
    entomology of an average Pennsylvania summer. But there came a year,
    a horrible year, shortly before my last return to England, when the
    Colorado beetle (alias potato-bug), having marched over the whole
    width of the continent, from the far West to the Atlantic
    sea-board, made its appearance in the neighborhood of Philadelphia.
    These loathsome creatures, varying in size from a sixpence to a
    shilling, but rather oval than round in shape, of a pinkish-colored
    flesh, covered with a variegated greenish-brown shell, came in such
    numbers that the paths in the garden between the vegetable beds
    seemed to swim with them, and made me giddy to look at them. They
    devoured everything, beginning with the potatoes; and having
    devastated the fields and garden, betook themselves to swarming up
    the walls of the house, for what purpose they alone could tell--but
    didn't. In vain men with ladders went up and scraped them down into
    buckets of hot water; they seemed inexhaustible, and filled me with
    such disgust that I felt as if I must fly, and abandon the place to
    them. I do not think this pest lasted much more than a week; then,
    having devoured, they departed, still making towards the sea, and
    were described to me by a gentleman who drove along the road, as
    literally covering the highway, like a disbanded army. One's
    familiar sensations under this visitation were certainly "crawling
    and creeping"; it is a great pity that flying might not have been
    added to them.]

                                  BRANCHTOWN, Monday, August 29th, 1836.
  DEAREST H----,

You are in Italy! in that land which, from the earliest time I can remember, has been the land
of my dreams; and it seems strange to me that you should be there, and I here; for when we
were together the realities of life, the matter-of-fact interests of every-day existence always
attracted your sympathies more than mine; nor do I remember ever hearing you mention, with
the longing which possessed me, Italy, or the shores of the Mediterranean.... If, as I believe,
there is a special Providence in "the fall of a sparrow," then your and my whereabouts are
not the result of accidental circumstance, but the providential appointment of God. Dearest
H----, your life's lesson just now is to be taught you through variety of scene, the daily
intercourse of your most precious friend [Miss Dorothy Wilson], and the beautiful and lofty
influences of the countries in which you are traveling and sojourning: and mine is to be learnt
from a page as different as the chapters of Lindley Murray's Grammar are different from those
of a glorious, illuminated, old vellum book of legends. I not only believe through my intuitive
instincts, but also through my rational convictions, that my own peculiar task is the wholesomest
and best for me, and though I might desire to be with you in Italy, I am content to be without
you in America.... How much all separation and disappointment tend to draw us nearer to God!
To me upon this earth you seem almost lost--you, and those yet nearer and dearer to me than
yourself; your very images are becoming dim, and vague, and blurred in outline to my memory,
like faded pictures or worn-out engravings. I think of you all almost as of the dead, and the
feverish desire to be once more with you and them, from which I have suffered sometimes, is
gradually dying away in my heart; and now when I think of any of you, my dear distant ones,
it is as folded with me together in our Heavenly Father's arms, watched over by His care, guarded
over by His merciful love, and though my imagination no longer knows where to seek or find
you on earth, I meet you under the shadow of His Almighty Wings, and know that we are together--now--and
forever.

    [To those who know the rate of intercourse between Europe and
    America now, these expressions of the painful sense of distance from
    my country and friends, under which I suffered, must seem almost
    incomprehensible,--now, when to go to Europe seems to most Americans
    the easiest of summer trips, involving hardly more than a week's sea
    voyage; when letters arrive almost every other day by some of the
    innumerable steamers flying incessantly to and fro, and weaving,
    like living shuttles, the woof and warp of human communication
    between the continents; and the submarine telegraph shoots daily
    tidings from shore to shore of that terrible Atlantic, with swift
    security below its storms. But when I wrote this to my friend, no
    words were carried with miraculous celerity under the dividing
    waves; letters could only be received once a month, and from thirty
    to thirty-seven days was the average voyage of the sailing packets
    which traversed the Atlantic. Men of business went to and fro upon
    their necessary affairs, but very few Americans went to Europe, and
    still fewer Europeans went to America, to spend leisure, or to seek
    pleasure; and American and English women made the attempt still
    seldomer than the men. The distance between the two worlds, which
    are now so near to each other, was then immense.]

Let me answer your questions, dear H----; though when I strive most entirely to satisfy you,
I seem to have left out the very things you wish to know....

I am reading Sir Thomas Browne's "Religio Medici." What charming old English it is! How many
fantastical and how many beautiful things there are in it!

Yesterday I walked down, with a basket of cucumbers and some beautiful flowers, to Mrs. F----'s,
the wife of the Unitarian clergyman whose church I attend, and who is an excellent and highly
valued friend of mine; and I sat two hours with her and another lady, going through an interminable
discussion on the subject of intellectual gifts: the very various proportions in which they
were distributed, and the measure of consciousness of superiority which was inevitable, and
therefore allowable, in the possessor of an unusual amount of such endowments....

I wish Mr. and Mrs. F---- lived near me instead of being merely come to spend a few weeks in
this neighborhood.... I do not keep a diary any more; I do not find chronicling my days helps
me to live them, and for many reasons I have given up my journal. Perhaps I may resume it when
we set out for the South....

We are now altogether proprietors of this place, and I really think, as I am often told, that
it is getting to be prettier and better kept than any other in this neighborhood. It is certainly
very much improved, and no longer looks quite unlike an English place, but there are yet a
thousand things to be done to it, in the contemplation of which I try to forget its present
mongrel appearance.

Now, dear, I have answered as many of your questions as my paper allows. Do not, I beseech
you, send me back word that my letter was "thoroughly unsatisfactory."

God bless you.

                              I am ever your affectionate
                                                                F. A. B.

                                     BRANCHTOWN, Wednesday, October 5th.
  MY DEAREST H----,

It is a great disappointment to me that I am not going to the South this winter. There is no
house, it seems, on the plantation but a small cottage, inhabited by the overseer, where the
two gentlemen proprietors can be accommodated, but where there is no room for me, my baby,
and her nurse, without unhousing the poor overseer and his family altogether. The nearest town
to the estate, Brunswick, is fifteen miles off, and a wretched hole, where I am assured it
will be impossible to obtain a decent lodging for me, so that it has been determined to leave
me and baby behind, and the owner will go with his brother, but without us, on his expedition
to Negroland. As far as the child is concerned, I am well satisfied; ... but I would undergo
much myself to be able to go among those people. I know that my hands would be in a great measure
tied. I certainly could not free them, nor could I even pay them for their labor, or try to
instruct them, even to the poor degree of teaching them to read. But mere personal influence
has a great efficiency; moral revolutions of the world have been wrought by those who neither
wrote books nor read them; the Divinest Power was that of One Character, One Example; that
Character and Example which we profess to call our Rule of life. The power of individual personal
qualities is really the great power, for good or evil, of the world; and it is upon this ground
that I feel convinced that, in spite of all the cunningly devised laws by which the negroes
are walled up in a mental and moral prison, from which there is apparently no issue, the personal
character and daily influence of a few Christian men and women living among them would put
an end to slavery, more speedily and effectually than any other means whatever.

You do not know how profoundly this subject interests me, and engrosses my thoughts: it is
not alone the cause of humanity that so powerfully affects my mind; it is, above all, the deep
responsibility in which we are involved, and which makes it a matter of such vital paramount
importance to me.... It seems to me that we are possessed of power and opportunity to do a
great work; how can I not feel the keenest anxiety as to the use we make of this talent which
God has entrusted us with? We dispose of the physical, mental, and moral condition of some
hundreds of our fellow-creatures. How can I bear to think that this great occasion of doing
good, of dealing justly, of setting a noble example to others, may be wasted or neglected by
us? How can I bear to think that the day will come, as come it surely must, when we shall say:
We once had it in our power to lift this burden from four hundred heads and hearts, and stirred
no finger to do it; but carelessly and indolently, or selfishly and cowardly, turned our back
upon so great a duty and so great a privilege.

I cannot utter what I feel upon this subject, but I pray to God to pour His light into our
hearts, and enable us to do that which is right.

In every point of view, I feel that we ought to embrace the cause of these poor people. They
will be free assuredly, and that before many years; why not make friends of them instead of
deadly enemies? Why not give them at once the wages of their labor? Is it to be supposed that
a man will work more for fear of the lash than he will for the sake of an adequate reward?
As a matter of policy, and to escape personal violence, or the destruction of one's property,
it were well not to urge them--ignorant, savage, and slavish, as they are--into rebellion.
As a mere matter of worldly interest, it would be wise to make it worth their while to work
with zeal and energy for hire, instead of listlessly dragging their reluctant limbs under a
driver's whip.

Oh, how I wish I was a man! How I wish I owned these slaves! instead of being supported (disgracefully,
as it seems to me) by their unpaid labor....

You tell me, dear H----, that you are aged and much altered, and you doubt if I should know
you. That's a fashion of speech--you doubt no such thing, and know that I should know you if
your face were as red as the fiery inside of Etna, and your hair as white as its snowy shoulders.

I have had the skin peeled off the back of my neck with standing in the sun here, and my whole
face and hands are burnt, by constant exposure, to as fine a coffee-color as you would wish
to see of a summer's day. Yet, after all, I got as sharp a sunstroke on my shoulders, driving
on a coach-box by the side of Loch Lomond once, as could be inflicted upon me by this American
sky. The women here, who are careful, above all things, of their appearance, marvel extremely
at my exposing myself to the horrors of tanning, freckling, etc.; but with hair and eyes as
dark as mine, a gipsy complexion doesn't signify, and I prefer burning my skin to suffocating
under silk handkerchiefs, sun-bonnets, and two or three gauze veils, and sitting, as the ladies
here do, in the dark till the sun has declined. I am certainly more like a Red Indian squaw
than when last you saw me; but that change doesn't signify, it's only skin deep....

You speak of the beauty of the Italian sky, and say that to pass the mornings with such pictures,
and the evenings with such sunsets, is matter to be grateful for.

I have been spending a month with my friends, the Sedgwicks, in a beautiful hilly region in
the State of Massachusetts; and I never looked abroad upon the woods and valleys and lakes
and mountains without thinking how great a privilege it was to live in the midst of such beautiful
things. I felt this the more strongly, perhaps, because the country in my own neighborhood
here is by no means so varied and interesting.

I am glad you are to have the pleasure of meeting your own people abroad, and thus carrying
your home with you: give my kindest love to them all whenever you see them....

I have not been hot this summer: the weather has been rainy and cold to a most uncommon degree;
and I have rejoiced therefore, and so have the trees and the grass, which have contrived to
look green to the end of the chapter, as with us....

If I am not allowed to go to the South this winter, it is just possible that I may spend three
months in England.

Good-bye, my dearest H----.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [This was the last letter I wrote to my friend from America this
    year; it was decided that I should not go to the South, and so
    lonely a winter as I should have had to spend in the country being
    rather a sad prospect, it was also decided that I should return to
    England, and remain during my temporary widowhood with my own family
    in London.

    I sailed at the beginning of November, and reached England, after a
    frightfully stormy passage of eight and twenty days. I and my
    child's nurse were the only women on board the packet, and there
    were very few male passengers. The weather was dreadful; we had
    violent contrary winds almost the whole time, and one terrific gale
    that lasted nearly four days; during which time I and my poor little
    child and her nurse were prisoners in the cabin, where we had not
    even the consolation of daylight, the skylights being all closely
    covered to protect us from the sea, which broke all over the decks.
    I begged so hard one day to have the covering removed, and a ray of
    daylight admitted, if only for five minutes, that I was indulged,
    and had reason to repent it; the sea almost instantly broke the
    windows and poured down upon us like Niagara, and I was thankful to
    be covered up again as quick as possible in dry darkness.

    This storm was made memorable to me by an experience of which I have
    read one or two descriptions, by persons who have been similarly
    affected in seasons of great peril, and which I have never ceased
    regretting that I did not make a record of as soon as possible; but
    the lapse of time, though it has no doubt enfeebled, has in no other
    way altered, the impressions I received.

    The tempest was the first I had ever witnessed, and was undoubtedly
    a more formidable one than I have ever since encountered in eighteen
    passages across the Atlantic. I was told, after it was over, that
    the vessel had sprung its mainmast--a very serious injury to a
    sailing ship, I suppose, by the mode in which it was spoken of; and
    for three days we were unable to carry any sail whatever for the
    fury of the wind.

    At the height of the storm, in the middle of a night which my
    faithful friend and servant, Margery O'Brien, passed in prayer,
    without once rising from her knees, the frightful uproar of the
    elements and the delirious plunging and rearing of the convulsed
    ship convinced me that we should inevitably be lost. As the vessel
    reeled under a tremendous shock, the conviction of our impending
    destruction became so intense in my mind, that my imagination
    suddenly presented to me the death-vision, so to speak, of my whole
    existence.

    This kind of phenomenon has been experienced and recorded by persons
    who have gone through the process of drowning, and afterwards
    recovered; or have otherwise been in imminent peril of their lives,
    and have left curious and highly interesting accounts of their
    sensations.

    I should find it impossible adequately to describe the vividness
    with which my whole past life presented itself to my perception; not
    as a procession of events, filling a succession of years, but as a
    whole--a total--suddenly held up to me as in a mirror, indescribably
    awful, combined with the simultaneous acute and almost despairing
    sense of loss, of waste, so to speak, by which it was
    accompanied. This instantaneous, involuntary retrospect was followed
    by a keen and rapid survey of the religious belief in which I had
    been trained, and which then seemed to me my only important
    concern....

    The tension, physical and mental, of the very short space of time in
    which these processes took place, gave way to a complete exhaustion,
    in which, strangely enough, I found the sort of satisfaction that a
    child does in crooning itself to sleep, in singing, one after
    another, every song I could call to memory; and my repertory was a
    very numerous one, composed of English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh,
    French, German, Italian, and Spanish specimens, which I "chanted
    loudly, chanted lowly," sitting on the floor, through the rest of
    the night, till the day broke, and my sense of danger passed away,
    but not the recollection of the never-to-be-forgotten experience it
    had brought to me.

    I have often since wondered if any number of men going into action
    on a field of battle are thus impressed. Several thousands of human
    beings, with the apparition of their past life thus suddenly
    confronting them, is not a bad suggestion of the Day of Judgment.

    I have heard it asserted that the experience I have here described
    was only that of persons who, in the full vigor of life and health,
    were suddenly put in peril of immediate death; and that whatever
    regret, repentance, or remorse might afflict the last moments of
    elderly persons, or persons prepared by previous disease for
    dissolution, this species of revelation, by the sudden glare of
    death, of the whole past existence was not among the phenomena of
    death-beds.

    As a curious instance of the very mistaken inferences frequently
    drawn from our actions by others, when the storm had sufficiently
    subsided to allow of our very kind friend, the captain, leaving his
    post of vigilant watch on deck, to come and inquire after his poor
    imprisoned female passengers, he congratulated me upon my courage.
    "For," said he, "at the very height of the storm, I was told that
    you were heard singing away like a bird."

    I am not sure that I succeeded in making him understand that that
    was only because I had been as frightened as I was capable of being,
    and, having touched the extremest point of terror, I had subsided
    into a sort of ecstacy of imbecility, in     which I had found my
    "singing voice."

    I returned to my home and family, and stayed with them in London all
    the time of my visit to England, which, from unforeseen
    circumstances, was prolonged far beyond what had originally been
    intended.

    I returned to the intercourse of all my former friends and
    acquaintance, and to the London society of the day, which was full
    of delightful interest for me, after the solitary and completely
    unsocial life I had been leading for the two previous years.

    My friend, Miss S----, was still abroad, and her absence was the
    only drawback to the pleasure and happiness of my return to my own
    country.

    My father resided then in Park Place, St. James's, in a house which
    has since become part of the Park Hotel; we have always had a
    tending towards that particular street, which undoubtedly is one of
    the best situated in London: quiet in itself, not being a
    thoroughfare, shut in by the pleasant houses that look into the
    Green Park below Arlington Street, and yet close to St. James's
    Street, and all the gay busyness of the West End, Pall Mall, and
    Piccadilly.

    While we were living at No. 10 Park Place, my cousin, Horace Twiss,
    was our opposite neighbor, at No. 5, which became my own residence
    some years afterwards; and, since then, my sister had her London
    abode for several years at No. 9. The street seems always a sort of
    home to me, full of images and memories of members of my family and
    their intimates who visited us there.

    My return to London society at this time gave me the privilege of an
    acquaintance with some of its most remarkable members, many of whom
    became, and remained, intimate and kind friends of mine for many
    years. The Miss Berrys, Lady Charlotte Lindsay, Lady Morley, Lord
    and Lady Lansdowne, Lord and Lady Ellesmere, Lord and Lady Dacre,
    Sydney Smith, Rogers, were among the persons with whom I then most
    frequently associated; and in naming these members of the London
    world of that day, I mention only a small portion of a brilliant
    society, full of every element of wit, wisdom, experience, refined
    taste, high culture, good breeding, good sense, and distinction of
    every sort that can make human intercourse valuable and delightful.

    I was one of the youngest members of that pleasant society, and have
    seen almost all its brilliant lights go out. Eheu! of what has
    succeeded to them in the London of the present day, I know nothing.]

                           PARK PLACE, St. James's, December 28th, 1836.

Nevertheless, and in spite of all your doubts, and notwithstanding all the improbabilities
and all the impossibilities, here I am, dearest H----, in very deed in England, and in London,
once again. And shall it be that I have crossed that terrible sea, and am to pass some time
here, and to return without seeing you? I cannot well fancy that. Surely, now that the Atlantic
is no longer between us, though the Alps may be, we shall meet once more before I go back to
my dwelling-place beyond the uttermost parts of the sea. The absolute impossibility of taking
the baby to the South determined the arrangements that were made; and as I was at any rate
to be alone all the winter, I obtained leave to pass it in England, whither I am come, alone
with my chick, through tempestuous turbulence of winds and waves, and where I expect to remain
peaceably with my own people, until such time as I am fetched away. When this may be, however,
neither I nor any one else can tell, as it depends upon the meeting and sitting of a certain
Convention, summoned for the revising of the constitution of the State of Pennsylvania; and
there is at present an uncertainty as to the time of its opening. It was at first appointed
to convene on the 1st of May, and it was then resolved that I should return early in March,
so as to be in America by that time; but my last news is that the meeting of the Convention
may take place in February, and my stay in England will probably be prolonged for several months
in consequence....

Your various propositions, regarding negro slavery in America, I will answer when we meet,
which I hope will be ere long.... I wish to heaven I could have gone down to Georgia this winter!...

Your impression of Rome does not surprise me; I think it would be mine. I have not seen dear
Emily, but expect that pleasure in about a fortnight....

My father took his farewell of the stage last Friday. How much I could say upon that circumstance
alone! The house was immensely full, the feeling of regret and good-will universal, and our
own excitement, as you may suppose, very great. My father bore it far better than I had anticipated,
and his spirits do not appear to have suffered since; I know not whether the reaction may not
make itself felt hereafter.

Perhaps his present occupation of licenser may afford sufficient employment of a somewhat kindred
nature to prevent his feeling very severely the loss of his professional excitement; and yet
I know not whether a sufficient succedaneum is to be found for such a dram as that, taken nightly
for more than forty years....

Who do you think Adelaide and I went to dine with last Friday? You will never guess, so I may
as well tell you--the C----s! The meetings in this world are strange things. She sought me
with apparent cordiality, and I had no reason whatever for avoiding her. She is very handsome,
and appears remarkably amiable, with the simple good breeding of a French great lady, and the
serious earnestness of a devout Roman Catholic. They are going to Lisbon, where he is attaché
to the Embassy.

I had a letter from Mr. Combe the other day, full of the books he had been publishing, and
the lectures he had been delivering. He seems to be very busy, and very happy. [Mr. Combe had
lately married my cousin, Cecilia Siddons.] ...

Farewell, my dearest H----.

                              I am ever your most affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                PARK PLACE, ST. JAMES'S, May 13th, 1837.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

You will never believe I am alive, not sooner to have answered your kind letter; yet I was
grateful for your expressions of regard, and truly sorry for all you have had to undergo. Certainly
the chances of this life are strange--that you should be in Toronto, and I in London now, is
what neither of us would have imagined a little while ago.

I wish I could think you were either as happy or as well amused as I am. I hope, however, you
have recovered your health, and that you will be able to visit some of the beautiful scenery
of the St. Lawrence this summer; that, at least, you may have some compensation for your effort
in crossing the Atlantic.

I heard of you from my friend, Miss Sedgwick, whose sympathies were as much excited by your
personal acquaintance as her admiration had been by your books. I heard of you, too, from Theodore
Fay, whom I saw a short time since, and who gave me a letter of yours to read, which you wrote
him from New York. [Mr. Theodore Fay was a graceful writer of prose and poetry, and achieved
some literary reputation in his own country; he was for some time United States Minister at
Berlin.]

Lady Hatherton, whom I met the other evening at old Lady Cork's, was speaking of you with much
affection; and all your friends regret your absence from England; and none more sincerely than
I, who shall, I fear, have the ill fortune to miss you on both sides of the Atlantic.

I find London more beautiful, more rich and royal, than ever; the latter epithet, by-the-bye,
applies to external things alone, for I do not think the spirit of the people as royal, i.e.,
loyal, as I used to fancy it was.

Liberalism appears to me to have gained a much stronger and wider influence than it had before
I went away; liberal opinions have certainly spread, and I suppose will spread indefinitely.
Toryism, on the other hand, seems as steadfast in its old strongholds as ever; the Tories,
I see, are quite as wedded as formerly to their political faith, but at the same time more
afraid of all that is not themselves, more on the defensive, more socially exclusive; I think
they mix less with "the other side" than formerly, and are less tolerant of difference of opinion.

I find a whole race of prima donnas swept away; Pasta gone and Malibran dead, and their successor,
Grisi, does not charm and enchant me as they did, especially when I hear her compared to the
former noble singer and actress. When I look at her, beautiful as she is, and think of Pasta,
and hear her extolled far above that great queen of song, by the public who cannot yet have
forgotten the latter, I am more than ever impressed with the worthlessness of popularity and
public applause, and the mistake of those who would so much as stretch out their little finger
to obtain it. I came to England just in time to see my father leave the stage, and close his
laborious professional career. After a long life of public exhibition, and the glare of excitement
which inevitably attends upon it, to withdraw into the sober twilight of private life is a
great trial, and I fear he finds it so. His health is not as good as it was while he still
exercised his profession, and I think he misses the stimulus of the daily occupation and nightly
applause.

What a dangerous pursuit that is which weans one from all other resources and interests, and
leaves one dependent upon public exhibition for the necessary stimulus of one's existence!
This aspect of it alone would make me deprecate that profession for any one I loved; it interferes
with every other study, and breaks the thread of every other occupation, and produces mental
habits which, even if distasteful at first, gradually become paramount to all others, and,
in due time, inveterate; and besides perpetually stimulating one's personal vanity and desire
for admiration and applause, directs whatever ambition one has to the least exalted of aims,
the production of evanescent effects and transitory emotions.

I am thankful that I was removed from the stage before its excitement became necessary to me.
That reminds me that, within the last two days, Pasta has returned to England: they say she
is to sing at Drury Lane, Grisi having possession of the Opera House. Now, will it not be a
pity that she should come in the decline of her fine powers, and subject herself to comparisons
with this young woman, whose voice and beauty and popularity are all in their full flower?
If I knew Pasta, I think I would go on my knees to beg her not to do it.

I find my sister's voice and singing very much improved, and exceedingly charming. She speaks
always with warm regard of you, and remembers gratefully your kindness to her.

My dear Mrs. Jameson, it is a great disappointment to me that I cannot welcome you to my American
home, and be to you that pleasant thing, an old friend in a foreign land. It appears to me
that we shall have the singular ill-luck of passing each other on the sea; at least, if it
is true that you return in the autumn.

Much as I had desired to see my own country again, my visit to it has had one effect which
I certainly had not anticipated, and for which I am grateful: it has tended to reconcile me
to my present situation in life, comparatively remote as it is from the best refinements of
civilization and all the enjoyments of society.... The turmoil and dissipation of a London
life, amusing as they are for a time, soon pall upon one, and I already feel, in my diminished
relish for them, that I am growing old.

To live in the country in England!--that indeed would be happiness and pleasure; but we shall
never desert America and the duties that belong to us there, and I should be the last person
to desire that we should do so; and so I think henceforth England and I are "Paradises Lost"
to each other,--and this is a very strange life; with which "wise saw," but not "modern instance,"
I will conclude, begging you to believe me,

                              Ever yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Madame Pasta did return then to the stage, and her brilliant young
    rival, Grisi, was to her what the Giessbach would be to a great wave
    of the Atlantic. But, alas! she returned once more after that to the
    scene of her former triumphs in London; the power, majesty, and
    grace of her face, figure, and deportment all gone, her voice
    painfully impaired and untrue, her great art unable to remedy, in
    any degree, the failure of her natural powers.

    She came as an agent and emissary of the political party of Italian
    liberty, to help the cause of their Italia Unita, and our people
    received her with affectionate respect, for the sake of what she had
    been; but she accepted their applause with melancholy gestures of
    disclaimer, and sorrowful head-shaking over her own decline. Those
    who had never heard or seen her before were inclined to laugh; those
    who had, did cry.

    The latent expression of a face is a curious study for the
    physiognomist, and is sometimes strikingly at variance with that
    which is habitual, as well as with the general character of the
    features. That fine and accurate observer of the symptoms of
    humanity, George Eliot, gives her silly, commonplace, little
    second-heroine in "Adam Bede," Hester, a pathetic and sentimental
    expression, to which nothing in her mind or character corresponds,
    and which must have been an inheritance from some ancestress in whom
    such an expression had originated with a meaning.

    Madame Pasta was not handsome, people of uneducated and unrefined
    taste might have called her plain; but she had that indescribable
    quality which painters value almost above all others--style, and a
    power and sweetness of expression, and a grandeur and grace of
    demeanor, that I have never seen surpassed. She was not handsome,
    certainly; but she was beautiful, and never, by any chance, looked
    common or vulgar.

    Madame Grisi was almost perfectly handsome; the symmetry of her head
    and bust, and the outline of her features resembled the ideal models
    of classical art--it was the form and face of a Grecian goddess; and
    her rare natural gifts of musical utterance and personal loveliness
    won for her, very justly, the great admiration she excited, and the
    popularity she so long enjoyed. In a woman of far other and higher
    endowments, that wonderful actress, Rachel, whose face and figure,
    under the transforming influence of her consummate dramatic art,
    were the perfect interpreters of her perfect tragic conceptions, an
    ignoble, low-lived expression occasionally startled and dismayed
    one, on a countenance as much more noble and intellectual, as it was
    less beautiful than Grisi's,--the outward and visible sign of the
    inward and spiritual disgrace, which made it possible for one of her
    literary countrymen and warmest admirers to say that she was
    adorable, because she was so "déliceusement canaille." Emilie,
    Camille, Esther, Pauline, such a "delightful blackguard"!

    Grazia, the Juno of the Roman sculptors of her day, their model of
    severe classical beauty, had a perfectly stolid absence of all
    expression; she was like one of the oxen of her own Campagna, a
    splendid, serious-looking animal. No animal is ever vulgar, except
    some dogs, who live too much with men for the interest of their
    dignity, and catch the infection of the human vice.

    With us coarse-featured English, and our heavy-faced Teutonic
    kinsfolk, a thick outline and snub features are generally supposed
    to be the vulgar attributes of our lower classes; but the
    predominance of spirit over matter vindicates itself strikingly
    across the Atlantic, where, in the lowest strata of society, the
    native American rowdy, with a face as pure in outline as an ancient
    Greek coin, and hands and feet as fine as those of a Norman noble,
    strikes one dumb with the aspect of a countenance whose vile,
    ignoble hardness can triumph over such refinement of line and
    delicacy of proportion. A human soul has a wonderful supremacy over
    the matter which it informs. The American is a whole nation with
    well-made, regular noses; from which circumstance (and a few
    others), I believe in their future superiority over all other
    nations. But the lowness their faces are capable of "flogs
    Europe."]

                                           BANNISTERS, August 1st, 1837.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

After a riotous London season, my family has broken itself into small pieces and dispersed.
My mother is at her cottage in Surrey, where she intends passing the rest of the summer; my
father and sister are gone to Carlsbad--is not that spirited?--though indeed they journey in
search of health, rather than pleasure. My father has been far from well for some time past,
and has at length been literally packed off by Dr. Granville, to try the Bohemian waters.

I am at present staying with my friends, the Fitz Hughs, at Bannisters. I leave this place
on Friday for Liverpool, where I shall await the arrival of the American packet; after that,
we have several visits to pay, and I hope, when we have achieved them, to join my father and
Adelaide at Carlsbad. I am pretty sure that we shall winter in America; for, indeed, I was
to have written to you, to beg you to spend that season with us in Philadelphia, but as I had
already received your intimation of your intended return to England in the autumn, I knew that
such an offer would not suit your plans.

How glad you will be to see England again! and how glad your friends will be to see you again!
Miss Martineau, who was speaking of you with great kindness the other day, added that your
publishers would rejoice to see you too.

I do not know whether her book on America has yet reached you. It has been universally read,
and though by no means agreeable to the opinions of the majority, I think its whole tone has
impressed everybody with respect for her moral character, her integrity, her benevolence, and
her courage.

She tells me she is going to publish another work upon America, containing more of personal
narrative and local description; after which, I believe, she thinks of writing a novel. I shall
be quite curious to see how she succeeds in the latter undertaking. The stories and descriptions
of her political tales were charming; but whether she can carry herself through a work of imagination
of any length with the same success, I do not feel sure.

I saw the Montagues, and Procters, and Chorley (who is, I believe, a friend of yours), pretty
often while I was in London, and they were my chief informers as to your state of being, doing,
and suffering. I am sorry that the latter has formed so large a portion of your experience
in that strange and desolate land of your present sojourn. You do not say in your last letter
whether you intend visiting the United States before your return, or shall merely pass through
so much of them as will bring you to the port from which you sail. As I am not there to see
you, I should hardly regret your not traveling through them; for, in spite of your popularity,
which is very great in all parts of the country that I have visited, I do not think American
tastes, manners, and modes of being would be, upon the whole, congenial to you.

I believe I told you how I had met your friend, Lady Hatherton, at a party at old Lady Cork's,
and how kindly she inquired after you....

We are here in the midst of the elections, with which the whole country is in an uproar just
now. My friends are immovable Tories, and I had the satisfaction of being personally hissed
(which I never was before), in honor of their principles, as I drove through the town of Southampton
to-day in their carriage.

The death of poor old King William, and the accession of the little lady, his niece, must be
stale news, even with you, now. She was the last excitement of the public before the "dissolution
of London," and her position is certainly a most interesting one. Poor young creature! at eighteen
to bear such a burden of responsibility! I should think the mere state and grandeur, and slow-paced
solemnity of her degree, enough to strike a girl of that age into a melancholy, without all
the other graver considerations and causes for care and anxiety which belong to it. I dare
say, whatever she may think now, before many years are over she would be heartily glad to have
a small pension of £30,000 a year, and leave to "go and play," like common folk of fortune.
But, to be sure, if "noblesse oblige," royalty must do so still more, or, at any rate, on a
wider scale; and so I take up my burden again--poor young Queen of England!...

Emily sends you her best remembrances.... We shall certainly remain in England till October,
so that I feel sure that I shall have the pleasure of seeing you here before I return to my
other country--for I reckon that I have two; though, as the old woman said, and you know, "between
two stools," etc.

I should have thought you and Sir Francis Head would have become infinite cronies. I hear he
is so very clever; and as you tell me he says so many fine things of me, I believe it.

                              Ever yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The admirable novel of "Deerbrook" sufficiently answered all who
    had ever doubted Miss Martineau's capacity for that order of
    composition; in spite of Sydney Smith's determination that no
    village "poticary," as he called it, might, could, would, or ever
    should, be a hero of romance, and the incessant ridicule with which
    he assailed the choice of such a one. If, he contended, he takes his
    mistress's hand with the utmost fervor of a lover, he will, by the
    mere force of habit, end by feeling her pulse; if, under strong
    emotion, she faints away, he will have no salts but Epsom about him,
    wherewith to restore her suspended vitality; he will put cream of
    tartar in her tea, and (a) flower of brimstone in her bosom. There
    was no end to the fun he made of "the medicinal lover," as he called
    him. Nevertheless, the public accepted the Deerbrook M. D., and all
    the paraphernalia of gallipots, pill-boxes, vials, salves,
    ointments, with which the facetious divine always represented him as
    surrounded; and vindicated, by its approval, the authoress's choice
    of a hero.

    I do not know whether Mr. Gibson is not, to me, decidedly the hero
    of Mrs. Gaskell's "Wives and Daughters." I like him infinitely
    better than all the younger men of the story; and I think the
    preponderating interest with which one closes George Eliot's
    wonderful "Middlemarch" is decidedly in behalf of Lydgate, the
    country surgeon and hospital doctor. To be sure, we have come a
    long way since the Liberalism of Sydney Smith and 1837.

    I was indebted to my kind friend, Lord Lansdowne, for the memorable
    pleasure of being present at the first meeting between Queen
    Victoria and her Houses of Parliament. The occasion, which is always
    one of interest when a new sovereign performs the solemnity, was
    rendered peculiarly so by the age and sex of the sovereign. Every
    person who, by right or favor, could be present, was there; and no
    one of that great assembly will ever forget the impression made upon
    them. Lady Lansdowne, who was Mistress of the Robes, was herself an
    important member of the group round the throne, and I went with her
    niece, Lady Valletort, under Lord Lansdowne's escort, to places most
    admirably situated for hearing and seeing the whole ceremony.
                                         Bannisters!
                                         (Think of that, Master Brook!!)

  DEAREST H----,

These overflowing spirits of mine all come of a gallop of fifteen miles I have been taking
with dear Emily, over breezy commons and through ferny pine-woods, and then coming home and
devouring luncheon as fast as it could be swallowed; and so you get the result of all this
physical excitement in these very animal spirits; and if my letter is "all sound and fury,
signifying nothing," under the circumstances how can I help it?

That rather ill-conducted person, Ninon de l'Enclos, I believe, said her soup got into her
head; and though "comparisons are odious," and I should be loth to suggest any between that
wonderful no-better-than-she-should-be and myself, beyond all doubt my luncheon has got into
my head, though I drank nothing but water with it; but I rather think violent exercise in the
cold air, followed immediately by eating, will produce a certain amount of intoxication, just
as easily as stimulating drink would. I suppose it is only a question of accelerated circulation,
with a slight tendency of blood to the head.

However that may be, I wish you would speak to Emily (you needn't bawl, though you are in Ireland),
and tell her to hold her tongue and not disturb me. She is profanely laughing at a sermon of
Dr. South's, and interrupting me in this serious letter to you with absurd questions about
such nonsense as Life, Death, and Immortality. I can't get on for her a bit, so add her to
the cold ride and the hot lunch in the list of causes of this crazy epistle--I mean, the causes
of its craziness.

Do you know old South? I don't believe you do even this much of him:--

    "Old South, a witty Churchman reckoned,
    Was preaching once to Charles the Second:
    When lo! the King began to nod,
    Deaf to the zealous man of God;
    Who, leaning o'er his pulpit, cried
    To Lauderdale by Charles's side:--
    'My Lord, why, 'tis a shameful thing!
    You snore so loud, you'll wake the King!'"

I quote by memory, through my luncheon, and I dare say all wrong; but it doesn't matter, for
I don't believe you know it a bit better than I remember it. I and my baby came here on Monday,
and shall stay until to-morrow week; after that I go to Liverpool, to meet and be met; and
after that I know nothing, of course.... If, however, by that time you are likely to be near
London, we will come up thither forthwith, and you must come and stay in Park Place with us.
We shall be alone keeping house there; for my mother is in the country, and my father and Adelaide
are going to Carlsbad, where we think to join them by-and-by; in the mean time, we hope to
enjoy ourselves much sight-seeing all over London, which we shall then have entirely to ourselves;
and you had better come and help us.

Good-bye, dearest H----.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [This letter was written from Bannisters, the charming country home
    of my dear friend, Miss Fitz Hugh. For years it had been a resort of
    rest for Mrs. Siddons, who was always made welcome as one of her own
    sisters, by Mrs. Fitz Hugh; and for years it was a resort of rest
    for me, to whom my friend was as devoted as her mother had been to
    my aunt.]

                                 LIVERPOOL, Saturday, August 17th, 1837.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I have but one instant in which to write. I hope this will meet you at Emily's, in Orchard
Street [No. 18 Orchard Street, Portman Square, Mr. Fitz Hugh's town house]; it is to entreat
you to remain there until I come to town, which must be in less than a week....

I left Bannisters--most unnecessarily, as it has proved--a fortnight ago, which time I have
been spending in heart-eating suspense, waiting in vain, and bolstering up my patience, which
kept sinking every day more and more, like an empty sack put to stand upright. I have, since
I arrived here, received a letter which has caused me considerable distress, inasmuch as I
find I must leave England without again seeing my father and Adelaide, who are gone to Carlsbad
in the full expectation of our joining them there....

The political body upon whose movements ours are just now depending has not dispersed, but
is merely adjourned to the 17th October. This allows its absent member but a few days in Europe,
as we must sail on the 8th September; and those few days are gradually becoming fewer in consequence
of this long prevalence of contrary winds, which is keeping the vessel just at the entrance
of the Channel, within one good day's sail of me.

All this is a trial, and my heart has sunk, as hour after hour I have watched that watery horizon,
and seen the masts appear and disappear, and yet no tidings of the ship I look for.

I have ridden, bathed, tried to write, tried to read, marked my Shakespeare for you, and laid
my hand--but, God knows, not with all my heart--to whatsoever I found to do: still I have been
ashamed and displeased at the little command I have achieved over my impatience, and the little
use I have made of my time. It has been my great good fortune to meet with old friends, and
to make new ones, during this period of my probation; and never was kindly intercourse more
needed and more appreciated. But, after all, is it not always thus? and are not unexpected
pleasures and enjoyments furnished us quite as often as the trials which render them doubly
welcome?

'Tis now the 14th of August, and yet no tidings of that ship. There is no ground whatever for
anxiety, for it is the prevalence of calm, and light contrary winds, which alone delay its arrival.

Dearest Harriet, I shall soon see you again, and will not that be a blessing to both of us?
Farewell, my dear friend. How long it is since we have been even thus near each other! how
long since we have hoped so soon to hear each other's voice!

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [This letter was written from Crosby, a little strip of sandy beach,
    three miles from Liverpool, to which I betook myself with my child,
    rather than remain in the noisy, smoky town, while waiting for the
    arrival of the vessel from America which I was expecting.

    I dare say Crosby is by this time a flourishing, fashionable
    bathing-place. It was then a mere row of very humble seaside
    lodging-houses, where persons constrained as I was to remain in the
    close vicinity of Liverpool, were able to obtain fresh air, salt
    water, and an uninterrupted sea view.

    A Liverpool lady told me that, having once spent some weeks at this
    place one summer, her son, a lad of about twelve years old, used to
    ride along the sands to Liverpool every day for his lessons, and
    that she could see him through the telescope all the way to the
    first houses on the outskirt of the town. Just about midway,
    however, there was a spot of treacherous quicksand, and I confess I
    wondered at my friend's courage in watching her boy pass that point:
    he knew it well, and was little likely to take his pony too near it;
    but I confess I would rather have trusted to his caution to avoid
    the place, than watched him pass it through a telescope.

    From Liverpool, the long-expected ship having arrived, we went to
    London, and spent as much time with our friends there and elsewhere
    as our very limited leisure would then allow; and by the 10th of
    September, we were again on the edge of English ground, about to
    sail for the United States.]

                                 LIVERPOOL, Friday, September 8th, 1837.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

My time in England is growing painfully short, for the watch says half-past eleven, and at
two o'clock I shall be on board the ship. My promise, as well as my desire, urge me to write
you a few parting words. And yet what can they be, that may give you the slightest pleasure?

My parting with my poor mother was calmer than I had ventured to anticipate, and I thank Heaven
that I was not obliged to leave England without seeing her once more. I have heard from my
sister, who had just received the news of my sudden departure from England when she wrote.
She was bitterly disappointed; but yet I think this unexpected parting without seeing each
other again is perhaps well. Our last leave-taking, when she started with my father for Carlsbad,
was quite cheerful, because we looked soon to meet again. We have been spared those exceedingly
painful moments of clinging to what we are condemned to lose, and in the midst of novelty and
variety she will miss me far less than had I left her lonely, in the home where we have been
together for the past year.

Dear Lady Dacre, pray, if it is in your power to show her kindness at any time, do so; but
I am sure that you would, and that such a request on my part is unnecessary.

The days that we spent in London after leaving you formed a sad contrast to the happy time
we enjoyed at the Hoo. We were plunged in bustle and confusion; up to our eyes in trunks, packing-cases,
carpet-bags, and valises; and I don't believe Marius in the middle of his Carthaginian ruins
was more thoroughly uncomfortable than I, in my desolate, box-encumbered rooms.

You know that we were disappointed of our visit to Bowood, but we spent a few days delightfully
at Bannisters, and I am happy to say that we are leaving England with the desire and determination
to return as soon as possible.

I found on my arrival here a most pressing and cordial invitation from Sydney Smith (I cannot
call him Mr.) to Combe Flory, which, like many other pleasant things, must be foregone. Pray,
if you are with him when or after you receive this, thank him again for his kindness and courtesy
to us. I did not quite like him, you know, when first I met him at Rogers's; but that was Lady
Holland's fault; even now, his being a clergyman hurts my mind a little sometimes, and I fancy
I should like him more entirely if he were not so. I have a superstitious veneration for the
cloth, which his free-and-easy wearing of it occasionally disturbs a little; but I feel deeply
honored by his notice, and most grateful for the good-will which he expresses towards me, and
should have been too glad to have heard him laugh once more at his own jokes, which I acknowledge
he does with a better grace than any man alive,--though the last time I had that pleasure it
was at my own expense: I gave him an admirable chance, and I think he used his advantage most
unmercifully.

And now, dear Lady Dacre, what message will you give your kind and good husband from me? May
I, with "one foot on land and one on sea," send him word that I love him almost as well as
I do you? This shall rest with you, however. Pray thank him with all my heart, as I do you,
for your manifold kindnesses to me. God bless and preserve you both, and those you love! Remember
me most kindly to Mrs. Sullivan. I cannot tell you how my heart is squeezed, as the French
say, at going away. Luckily, I am too busy to cry to-day, and to-morrow I shall be too sea-sick,
and so, farewell!

                    Believe me, my dear Lady Dacre,
                              Yours affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The occasion of my becoming acquainted with my admirable and very
    kind friend, the Rev. Sydney Smith, was a dinner at Mr. Rogers's, to
    which I had been asked to meet Lord and Lady Holland, by special
    desire, as I was afterwards informed, of the latter, who, during
    dinner, drank out of her neighbor's (Sydney Smith's) glass, and
    otherwise behaved herself with the fantastic, despotic impropriety
    in which she frequently indulged, and which might have been
    tolerated in a spoilt beauty of eighteen, but was hardly becoming in
    a woman of her age and "personal appearance." When first I came out
    on the stage, my father and mother, who occasionally went to Holland
    House, received an invitation to dine there, which included me;
    after some discussion, which I did not then understand, it was
    deemed expedient to decline the invitation for me, and I neither
    knew the grounds of my parents' decision, nor of how brilliant and
    delightful a society it had then closed the door to me. On my return
    to England after my marriage, Lady Holland's curiosity revived with
    regard to me, and she desired Rogers to ask me to meet her at
    dinner, which I did; and the impression she made upon me was so
    disagreeable that, for a time, it involved every member of that
    dinner-party in a halo of undistinguishing dislike in my mind.

    My sister had joined us in the evening, and sat for a few moments by
    Lady Holland, who dropped her handkerchief. Adelaide, who was as
    unpleasantly impressed as myself by that lady, for a moment made no
    attempt to pick it up; but, reflecting upon her age and size, which
    made it difficult for her to stoop for it herself, my sister picked
    it up and presented it to her, when Lady Holland, taking it from
    her, merely said, "Ah! I thought you'd do it." Adelaide said she
    felt an almost irresistible inclination to twitch it from her hand,
    throw it on the ground again, and say, "Did you? then now do it
    yourself!"

    Altogether the evening was unsuccessful, if its purpose had been an
    acquaintance between Lady Holland and myself; and I remember a
    grotesque climax to my dissatisfaction in the destruction of a
    lovely nosegay of exquisite flowers which my sister had brought with
    her, and which, towards the middle of the evening, mysteriously
    disappeared, and was looked for and inquired for in vain, until poor
    Lord Holland, who was then dependent upon the assistance of two
    servants to move from his seat, being raised from the sofa on which
    he had been deposited when he was brought up from the dining-room,
    the flowers, which Adelaide had left there, were discovered, pressed
    as flat as if for preservation in a book of botanical specimens. The
    kindly, good-natured gentleman departed, luckily, without knowing
    the mischief he had done, or seeing my sister's face of ludicrous
    dismay at the condition of her flowers; which Sydney Smith, however,
    observed, and in a minute exclaimed, "Ah! I see! Oh dear, oh dear,
    what a pity! Hot-bed! hot-bed!"

    It has always been a matter of amazement to me that Lady Holland
    should have been allowed to ride rough-shod over society, as she did
    for so long, with such complete impunity. To be sure, in society,
    well-bred persons are always at the mercy of ill-bred ones, who have
    an immense advantage over everybody who shrinks from turning a
    social gathering into closed lists for the exchange of
    impertinences; and people gave way to Lady Holland's domineering
    rudeness for the sake of their hosts and fellow-guests, and spared
    her out of consideration for them. Another reason for the toleration
    shown Lady Holland was the universal esteem and affectionate respect
    felt for her husband, whose friends accepted her and her
    peculiarities for his sake, and could certainly have given no
    stronger proof of their regard for him.

    The most powerful inducement to patience, however, to the London
    society upon which Lady Holland habitually trampled, was the immense
    attraction of her house and of the people who frequented it. Holland
    House was, for a series of years, the most brilliant, charming, and
    altogether delightful social resort. Beautiful, comfortable,
    elegant, picturesque,--an ideal house, full of exquisite objects and
    interesting associations, where persons the most distinguished for
    birth, position, mental accomplishments, and intellectual gifts, met
    in a social atmosphere of the highest cultivation and the greatest
    refinement,--the most perfect civilization could produce nothing
    more perfect in the way of enjoyment than the intercourse of that
    delightful mansion. As Lady Tankerville pathetically exclaimed on
    Lady Holland's death, "Ah! poore, deare Lady 'Olland! what shall we
    do? It was such a pleasant 'ouse!"--admission to which was, to most
    of its frequenters, well worth some toleration of its mistress's
    brusqueries.

    If, as a friend of mine once assured me (a well-born, well-bred man
    of the best English society), it was quite well worth while to "eat
    a little dirt" to get the entrée of Stafford House, I incline to
    think the spoonfuls of dirt Lady Holland occasionally administered
    to her friends were accepted by them as the equivalent for the
    delights of her "pleasant 'ouse"; and that I did not think so, and
    had no desire to go there upon those terms, was, I imagine, the only
    thing that excited Lady Holland's curiosity about me, or her desire
    to have me for her guest. She complained to Charles Greville that I
    would not let her become acquainted with me, and twice after our
    first unavailing meeting at Rogers's, made him ask me to meet her
    again: each time, however, with no happier result.

    The first time, after making herself generally obnoxious at dinner,
    she at length provoked Rogers, who, the conversation having fallen
    upon the subject of beautiful hair, and Lady Holland saying, "Why,
    Rogers, only a few years ago, I had such a head of hair that I could
    hide myself in it, and I've lost it all," merely answered, "What a
    pity!"--but with such a tone that an exultant giggle ran round the
    table at her expense.

    After dinner, when the unfortunate female members of the party had
    to encounter Lady Holland unprotected, she singled out one of the
    ladies of the Baring family, to whom, however, she evidently meant
    to be particularly gracious; not, I think, without some intention of
    also pleasing me by her patronizing laudation of American people and
    American things; winding up with, "You know, my dear, we are
    Americans." The young Baring lady, who may or may not have been as
    familiar as I was with the Bingham and Baring alliances of early
    times in Philadelphia, merely raised her eyebrows, and said,
    "Indeed!" while I kept my lips close and breathed no syllable of
    Longfellow's house near Boston, which had been not only Washington's
    temporary abode, but the residence, in colonial days, of the
    Vassalls, to whom Lady Holland belonged, and where Longfellow showed
    me one day an iron plate at the back of one of the fire-places, with
    the rebus, the punning arms (Armoiries parlantes) of the Vassall
    family: a vase with a sun above it, Vas Sol.

    Je suis méchante, ma chére, as Madame de Sévigné wrote to her
    daughter; et cela m'a fait plaisir, to suppress the nice little
    anecdote which might have helped Lady Holland on so pleasantly just
    at that juncture.

    But, holding one's tongue because one chooses, and being compelled
    to hold one's tongue by somebody else, is quite a different thing;
    and I am not sure that the main reason of my dislike to Lady Holland
    is not that I held my tongue to "spite her" during the whole course
    of the last dinner-party to which Rogers invited me to meet her. The
    party consisted of fewer men than women, and Lady ---- and myself
    agreed to take each other down to dinner, which we did. Just,
    however, as we were seating ourselves, Lady Holland called out from
    the opposite side of the table, "No, no, ladies, I can't allow that;
    I must have Mrs. Butler by me, if you please." Thus challenged, I
    could not, without making a scene with Lady Holland, and beginning
    the poet's banquet with a shock to everybody present, refuse her
    very dictatorial behest; and therefore I left my friendly neighbor,
    Lady ----, and went round to the place assigned me by the imperious
    autocratess of the dinner-table: between herself and Dr. Allen ("the
    gentle infidel," "Lady Holland's atheist," as he was familiarly
    called by her familiars).

    But though one man may take the mare to the water, no given number
    of men can make her drink; so, having accepted my place, I
    determined my complaisance should end there, and, in spite of all
    Lady Holland's conversational efforts, and her final exclamation,
    "Allen! do get Mrs. Butler to talk! We really must make her talk!"
    I held my peace, and kept the peace, which I could have done upon no
    other conditions; but the unnatural and unwholesome effort disagreed
    with me so dreadfully, that I have a return of dyspepsia whenever I
    think of it, which I think justifies me in my dislike of Lady
    Holland.... I do not feel inclined to attribute to any motive but a
    kindly one, the attention Lady Holland showed my father during a
    severe indisposition of his, not long after this; though, upon her
    driving to his door one day with some peculiarly delicate jelly she
    had had made for him, Frederick Byng (Poodle, as he was always
    called by his intimates, on account of his absurd resemblance to a
    dog of that species), seeing the remorseful gratitude on my face as
    I received her message of inquiry after my father, exclaimed, "Now,
    she's done it! now, she's won it! now, she's got you, and you'll go
    to Holland House!" "No, I won't," said I, "but I'll go down to the
    carriage, and thank her!" which I immediately did, without stopping
    to put a bonnet on my head. Lady Holland was held, by those who knew
    her, to be a warm and constant friend, and had always been cordially
    kind to my father and my brother John.

    After Lord Holland's death she left Holland House, and took up her
    abode in South Street near the Park. One morning, when I was calling
    on Lady Charlotte Lindsay, Lady Morley came in, and being
    reproached by Lady Charlotte for not having come to a party at her
    house on the previous evening, in which reproach I joined, having
    been also a loser by her absence from that same party, "Couldn't,"
    said the lively lady, "for I was spending the evening with the
    pleasantest, most amiable, gentlest-mannered, sweetest-tempered, and
    most charming woman in all London--Lady Holland!" A conversation
    then ensued, in which certainly little quarter was shown to the ill
    qualities of the former mistress of Holland House. Among several
    curious instances of her unaccountably unamiable conduct to some of
    even Lord Holland's dearest friends, who, for his sake, opened their
    houses to her, allowed her to come thither, bespeaking her own
    rooms--her own company, who she would meet and who she would bring,
    and in every way consulting her pleasure and convenience, as was
    invariably the case on the occasion of her visits to Panshanger and
    Woburn,--Lady Morley said that Landseer had told her, that he was
    walking one day by the side of Lady Holland's wheel-chair, in the
    grounds of Holland House, and, stopping at a particularly pretty
    spot, had said, "Oh, Lady Holland! this is the part of your place of
    which the Duchess of Bedford has such a charming view from her house
    on the hill above." "Is it?" said Lady Holland; and immediately gave
    orders that the paling-fence round that part of her grounds should
    be raised so as to cut off the Duchess's view into them.

    Upon my venturing to express my surprise that anybody should go to
    the house of a person of whom they told such anecdotes, Lady Morley
    replied, "She is the only woman in the world of whom one does tell
    such things and yet goes to see her. She is the most miserable woman
    in England; she is entirely alone now, and she cannot bear to be
    alone, and, for his sake who was the dearest and most excellent and
    amiable creature that ever breathed, one goes on going to her, as I
    shall till she or I die." But what a description of the last days of
    the mistress of Holland House!

    Sidney Smith, with whom I had become well acquainted when I wrote
    the letter to Lady Dacre in which I mention him, used to amuse
    himself, and occasionally some of my other friends, by teasing me on
    the subject of what he called my hallucination with regard to my
    having married in America. He never allowed any allusion to the
    circumstance without the most comical expressions of regret for
    this, as he called it, curious form of monomania. On the occasion to
    which I refer in this letter, he and Mrs. Smith had met some friends
    at dinner at our house, and I was taking leave of them, previous to
    my departure for Liverpool, when he exclaimed, "Now do, my dear
    child, be persuaded to give up this extraordinary delusion; let it,
    I beg, be recorded of us both, that this pleasing and intelligent
    young lady labored under the singular and distressingly insane idea
    that she had contracted a marriage with an American; from which
    painful hallucination she was eventually delivered by the friendly
    exhortations of a learned and pious divine, the Rev. Sydney Smith."
    Everybody round us was in fits of laughter, as he affectionately
    held my hand, and thus paternally admonished me. I held up my left
    hand with its wedding-ring, and began, "Oh, but the baby!" when the
    ludicrous look with which my reverend tormentor received this
    overwhelming testimony of mine, threw the whole company into
    convulsions, and nothing was heard throughout the room but sighs and
    sobs of exhaustion, and faint ejaculations and cries for mercy,
    while everybody was wiping tears of laughter from their eyes. As for
    me, I covered up my face, and very nearly went into hysterics.

    The special and reportable sallies of Sydney Smith have been, of
    course, often repeated, but the fanciful fun and inexhaustible
    humorous drollery of his conversation among his intimates can never
    be adequately rendered or reproduced. He bubbled over with mirth, of
    which his own enjoyment formed an irresistible element, he shook,
    and his eyes glistened at his own ludicrous ideas, as they dawned
    upon his brain; and it would be impossible to convey the faintest
    idea of the genial humor of his habitual talk by merely repeating
    separate witticisms and repartees.

    On that same evening, at my father's house, the comparative
    cheapness of living abroad and in England having been discussed,
    Sydney Smith declared that, for his part, he had never found foreign
    quarters so much more reasonable than home ones, or foreign hotels
    less exorbitant in their charges. "I know I never could live under
    fifty pounds a week," said he. "Oh, but how did you live?" was the
    next question. "Why, as a canon should live," proudly retorted he;
    "and they charged me as enemy's ordnance."

    A question having arisen one evening at Miss Berry's as to the
    welcome Lady Sale would receive in London society after her
    husband's heroic conduct, and her heroic participation in it, during
    the Afghan war, Miss Berry, who, for some reason or other, did not
    admire Lady Sale as much as everybody else did, said she should not
    ask her to come to her house. "Oh, yes! pooh! pooh! you will,"
    exclaimed Sydney Smith; "you'll have her, he'll have her, they'll
    have her, we'll have her. She'll be Sale by auction!" Later on that
    same evening, it being asked what Lord Dalhousie would get for his
    successful exploit in carrying of the gates of some Indian town,
    "Why," cried Lady Morley, "he will be created Duke Samson
    Afghanistes." It was pleasant living among people who talked such
    nonsense as that.

    A party having been made to go and see the Boa Constrictor soon
    after its first arrival at the Zoölogical Gardens, Sydney Smith, who
    was to have been there, failed to come; and, questioned at dinner
    why he had not done so, said, "Because I was detained by the Bore
    Contradictor--Hallam"--whose propensity to controvert people's
    propositions was a subject of irritation to some of his friends,
    less retentive of memory and accurate in statement than himself.

    Sydney Smith, not unnaturally, preferred conversation to music; and
    at a musical party one evening, as he was stealing on tip-toe from
    the concert-room to one more remote from the performance, I held up
    my finger at him, when he whispered, "My dear, it's all right. You
    keep with the dilettanti; I go with the talkettanti." Afterwards,
    upon my expostulating with him, and telling him that by such habits
    he was running a risk of being called to order on some future
    eternal day with "Angel Sydney Smith, hush!" if he did not learn to
    endure music better, he replied, "Oh, no, no! I'm cultivating a
    judicious second expressly for those occasions."

    Of his lamentations for the "flashes of silence" which, he said, at
    one time made Macaulay's intercourse possible, one has heard; but
    when he was so ill that all his friends were full of anxiety about
    him, M----, having called to see him, and affectionately asking what
    sort of night he had passed, Sydney Smith replied, "Oh, horrid,
    horrid, my dear fellow! I dreamt I was chained to a rock and being
    talked to death by Harriet Martineau and Macaulay."

    Rogers's keen-edged wit seemed to cut his lips as he uttered it;
    Sydney Smith's was without sting or edge or venomous point of
    malice, and his genial humor was really the overflowing of a kindly
    heart.

    Rogers's helpful benevolence and noble generosity to poor artists,
    poor authors, and all distressed whom he could serve or succor, was
    unbounded; he certainly had the kindest heart and the unkindest
    tongue of any one I ever knew. His benefits remind me of a comical
    story my dear friend Harness once told me, of a poor woman at whose
    lamentations over her various hardships one of his curates was
    remonstrating, "Oh, come, come now, my good woman, you must allow
    that Providence has been, upon the whole, very good to you." "So He
    'ave, sir; so He 'ave, mostly. I don't deny it; but I sometimes
    think He 'ave taken it out in corns." I think Rogers took out his
    benevolence, in some directions, in the corns he inflicted, or, at
    any rate, trod upon, in others.

    Mr. Rogers's inveterate tongue-gall was like an irresistible
    impulse, and he certainly bestowed it occasionally, without the
    least provocation, upon persons whom he professed to like. He was
    habitually kind to me, and declared he was fond of me. One evening
    (just after the publication of my stupid drama, "The Star of
    Seville"), he met me with a malignant grin, and the exclamation,
    "Ah, I've just been reading your play. So nice! young poetry!"--with
    a diabolical dig of emphasis on the "young." "Now, Mr. Rogers,"
    said I, "what did I do to deserve that you should say that to me?" I
    do not know whether this appeal disarmed him, but his only answer
    was to take me affectionately by the chin, much as if he had been my
    father. When I told my sister of this, she, who was a thousand times
    quicker-witted than I, said, "Why didn't you tell him that young
    poetry was better than old?"

    Walking one day in the Green Park, I met Mr. Rogers and Wordsworth,
    who took me between them, and I continued my walk in great glory and
    exultation of spirit, listening to Rogers, and hearing
    Wordsworth,--the gentle rill of the one speech broken into and
    interrupted by sudden loud splashes of the other; when Rogers, who
    had vainly been trying to tell some anecdote, pathetically
    exclaimed, "He won't let me tell my story!" I immediately stopped,
    and so did Wordsworth, and during this halt Rogers finished his
    recital. Presently afterwards, Wordsworth having left us, Rogers
    told me that he (Mr. Wordsworth), in a visit he had been lately
    paying at Althorpe, was found daily in the magnificent library, but
    never without a volume of his own poetry in his hand. Years after
    this, when I used to go and sit with Mr. Rogers, I never asked him
    what I should read to him without his putting into my hands his own
    poems, which always lay by him on his table.

    A comical instance of the rivalry of wits (surely as keen as that of
    beauties) occurred one day when Mr. Rogers had been calling on me
    and speaking of that universal social favorite, Lady Morley, had
    said, "There is but one voice against her in all England, and that
    is her own." (A musical voice was the only charm wanting to Lady
    Morley's delightful conversation.) I was enchanted with this pretty
    and appropriate epigram, so unlike in its tone to Mr. Rogers's usual
    friendly comments; and, very soon after he left me, Sydney Smith
    coming in, I told him how clever and how pleasant a remark the
    "departed" poet (Sydney Smith often spoke of Rogers as dead, on
    account of his cadaverous complexion) had made on Lady Morley's
    voice. "He never said it," exclaimed my second illustrious visitor.
    "But he did, Mr. Smith, to me, in this room, not half an hour ago."
    "He never made it; it isn't his, it isn't a bit like him." To all
    which I could only repeat that, nevertheless, he had said it, and
    that, whether he made it or not, it was extremely well made.
    Presently Sydney Smith went away. I was living in upper Grosvenor
    Street, close to Park Lane; and he in Green Street, in the near
    neighborhood. But I believe he must have run from my house to his
    own, so short was the interval of time, before I received the
    following note: "Dans toute l'Angleterre il n'y a qu'une voix contre
    moi, et c'est la mienne." Then followed the signature of a French
    lady of the eighteenth century, and these words: "What a dear,
    innocent, confiding, credulous creature you are! and how you do
    love Rogers!

                                                         "SYDNEY SMITH."

    When I was leaving England, I received two most kind and
    affectionate letters from him, bidding me farewell, and exhorting
    me, in a most comical and yet pathetic manner, to be courageous and
    of good cheer in returning to America. One of these epistles ended
    thus: "Don't forget me, whatever you do; talk of me sometimes, call
    me Butler's Hudibras, and believe me always.

                              "Affectionately yours,
                                                        "SYDNEY SMITH."]

                                LIVERPOOL, Monday, September 11th, 1837.

Here we are again, dearest Harriet, returned from our ship, after a wretched day and night
spent on board of her most unnecessarily. When we reached the quay yesterday morning, we saw
the vessel lying under close-reefed sails; the favorable wind had died away, and the captain,
whom we found standing on the wharf, said that, it being Sunday morning, he did not know how
he should get a steamboat to tow us out. All this seemed to me very much like not sailing,
and I begged not to go on board; at all events, I proposed, if we did not sail, that we should
return to shore, and received a promise that we certainly should do so; so we went off in a
small boat to the ship. She is crowded to excess, and the greater proportion of passengers
are emigrant women and children.... I busied myself in stowing away everything in our state-room,
and removing the upper berth so as to secure a little more breathing space. I even was guilty
of the illicit proceeding--committed the outrage, in fact--of endeavoring to break one of my
bull's-eyes, preferring being drenched to dry suffocation in foul air; but my utmost violence,
even assisted with an iron rod, was ineffectual, and I had to give up breaking that window
as a bad job. I found Margery's state-room one chaos of confusion, she at the same time protesting
that everything was as tidily disposed of as possible; so I had to stand by and show her where
to put every individual article, and having cleared the small space of the heap of superfluous
things with which it was crammed, and removed the upper berth, I left it to her option whether
she or baby should occupy the floor at night.

At about half-past ten the captain came on board to say that we should not sail then, but if
the wind grew fair, we might perhaps sail in the afternoon. He then took himself off the vessel,
the wind was fast veering to dead ahead, ... and, with an aching heart and head, I remained
in my berth all day long. In the night a perfect gale arose, the ship dragged her anchor for
two miles, and we had thus much consolation that, had we put to sea, we should have encountered
a violent storm, and, in all probability been driven back into the Mersey. This morning the
wind was still contrary, and so we at length exerted ourselves to return to shore. Had we done
so yesterday in good time--or, rather, not gone on board at all, you and I might have spent
two more days together, and the baby and myself been spared considerable misery. But lamenting
cures nothing; ... but I wish we never had left the quay yesterday morning, for everything
showed against the probability of our sailing, and so here we are back in our old quarters
at the Star and Garter, and you are gone.

We have taken places at the theater for this evening, to see Macready in "Macbeth." The Captain
says we are to sail to-morrow morning, but I shall do my utmost this time to avoid going on
board except in his company; and then, I think, we shall perhaps have some chance of not spending
another day in vain in our sea-prison.

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The foregoing letter gives some idea of the difference between
    crossing from England to the United States in those days, and in
    these; when a telegram bears the defiance to fate of this message:
    "We sail in the Russia on the 3d; have dinner for us at the
    Adelphi on the 11th."]

                               PHILADELPHIA, Sunday, October 29th, 1837.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

We landed in New York, ten days ago, i.e., on Friday, the 20th October; and had we come on
immediately hither, your letter would have been just in time to greet me on my arrival here;
but our passage was of thirty-seven days, stormy as well as tedious, and I was so ill that
I did not leave my bed six times during the crossing; the consequence was, that on landing
I looked more like a ghost than a living creature, and was so reduced in strength as hardly
to be able to stand, so we remained in New York a few days, till I was able to travel.... Our
fellow-passengers, the women, I mean, were rather vulgar, commonplace people, with whom I should
not have had much sympathy, had I been well. As it was, I saw but little of them, and may consider
that one of the counterbalancing advantages of having suffered so much.

One of them was in circumstances which interested me a good deal, though there was little in
herself to do so. Her husband was a Staffordshire potter, and had gone to the United States
to establish a pottery there; to begin the building up of a large concern, and lay the foundation
for probable future wealth and prosperity. He had been gone two years, and she was now going
out to join him with their four children. In his summons to her after this long separation,
he told her that all had prospered with him, that he had bought a large tract of land, found
excellent soil, water, and means of every description for his manufacturing purposes, obtained
a patent, and established his business, and was every way likely to thrive and be successful.

What hope, what energy, what enterprise, what industry, in but two years of one human existence!
What a world of doubt, of distressful anxiety and misgiving in the heart of the woman, left
to patient expectation, to prayerful, tearful hopes and fears! What trust in man and faith
in God during those two years! And now, with her children, she was coming to rejoin her helpmate,
and begin life all over again, with him and them, in a strange country, in the midst of strangers,
with everything strange about her. I lay thinking with much sympathy of this poor woman and
her feelings, during my miserable confinement to my berth through that dismal voyage. She was
an uneducated person, of the lower middle class, and not in herself interesting: though I do
not know why I say that, when I was deeply interested about her, and I do not know that any
creature endowed with a heart and soul can fail to be an object of interest in some way or
other; and human existence, with all its marvelous developments, going on round one, must always
furnish matter for admiration, pity, or sympathy. Moreover, this woman was carrying out with
her the wives of several of her husband's workmen, who had accompanied him out on his experimental
voyage; and, being settled in his employment, had got their master's wife to bring their partners
out to them. Think what a meeting for all these poor people, dear Harriet, in this little hive
of English industry and energy in the far west, the fertile wildernesses of Indiana! How often
I thought of the fears and misgivings of these poor women in the steerage, when our progress
was delayed by tempestuous, contrary winds, when the heavy seas leaped over our laboring vessel's
sides, and when, during a violent thunderstorm, our masts were tipped with lambent fire, which
played round them like a halo of destruction.

All this while I have forgotten to tell you why I have not written sooner; and I suppose my
accusation is yet bitter in your heart while you are reading this. I told you on my first page
I was obliged to stay in New York to recruit my strength; the first time I went out, after
walking about a quarter of a mile, I was obliged to sit down and rest, for half an hour, in
a public garden, before I could crawl back again to the hotel.

On Monday, when I was a little better, we came on here. I am every day now expecting to be
fetched to Harrisburg.... A woman should be her husband's friend, his best and dearest friend,
as he should be hers: but friendship is a relation of equality, in which the same perfect respect
for each other's liberty is exercised on both sides; and that sort of marriage, if it exists
at all anywhere, is, I suspect, very uncommon everywhere. Moreover, I am not sure that marriage
ever is, can be, or ought to be, such an equality; for even "When two men ride on one horse,"
you know, etc. In the relation of friendship there is perfect freedom, and an undoubted claim
on each side to be neither dependent on, nor controlled by, each other's will. In the relation
of marriage this is impossible; and therefore certainly marriage is not friendship.... A woman
should, I think, love her husband better than anything on earth except her own soul; which,
I think, a man should respect above everything on earth but his own soul: and there, my dear,
is a very pretty puzzle for you, which a good many people have failed to solve. It is, indeed,
a pretty difficult problem; and perhaps you have chosen, if not the wiser and better, at any
rate the easier and safer part.

God bless you, dear friend.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                HARRISBURG, Friday, November 14th, 1837.

Thank you, dearest Harriet, for your epitome of the history of the New Testament. I have read
the same things, in greater detail, more than once.... I have repeatedly gone over accounts
of the history and authenticity of the Gospel narratives; but I have done so as a duty, and
in order to be able to give to others some reason for the faith that is in me,--not really
because I desired the knowledge for its own sake; and therefore my memory had gradually lost
its hold of what I had taken into my mind, chiefly for the satisfaction of others, to enable
me to make sufficient answers upon a subject whose best evidence of truth seems to me to reside
in itself, and to be altogether out of the region of logic.... Christ received the last and
perfect revelation of moral truth, brought it into the world, preached it by his practice,
and bore witness to it by his death; and since he came, every holy life and death, in those
portions of the globe where his name is known, has been moulded upon his teaching and example;
and those individuals least inclined to acknowledge it have unconsciously imbibed the influence
of the inspiration which he breathed into the soul of humanity. He has saved, and is daily
and hourly saving, the world: and so far from imagining the possibility of any end to the work
he has begun, or any superseding of his revelation by any other, it appears to me that civilized
societies and nations calling themselves Christian have hardly yet begun to comprehend, believe,
or adopt his teaching; under the influence of which I look for the regeneration of the race
through the coming ages: it will extend above and beyond all discoveries of science and developments
of knowledge, and more and more approve itself the only moral and spiritual theory that will
at once carry forward and keep pace with the progress of humanity....

If, by telling you that my mind dwelt more upon religious subjects now than formerly, I have
led you to suppose that I ever investigate or ponder creeds, theologies, dogmas, or systems
of faith, I have given you a false impression. But I live alone--much alone bodily, more alone
mentally; I have no intimates, no society, no intellectual intercourse whatever; and I give
myself up, as I never did in my life before, to mere musing, reverie, and speculation--I cannot
dignify the process by the title of thought or contemplation.

My mind is much less active than it was: I read less, write less, study little, plan no work,
and accomplish none. It is curious how, immediately upon my return to England, my mind seemed
to flow back into its former channels; how my thoughts were roused and awakened; and how my
imagination revived, and with what ease and rapidity I wrote, almost currente calamo, the only
thing worth anything that I ever have written, my "English Tragedy." Here, all things tend
to check any utterance of my thoughts, spoken or written; and while in England I could not
find time enough to write, I here have no desire to do so, and lament my inability to force
myself to mental exertion as a mere occupation and fill-time: I dare not say kill-time, "for
that would be a sin." ... I ride and walk, and pass my days alone; and lacking converse with
others, have become much addicted to desultory thinking (almost as bad a thing as desultory
reading), which is indeed no thinking at all. Real thinking is what Cleopatra calls "sweating
labor," to which the hewing of wood and drawing of water is a joke; but this I carefully avoid,
knowing my own incapacity for it; so I dawdle about my mind, and, naturally, arrive at few
conclusions; and among those few, no doubt, many false ones....

We are established here during the rest of the Session of the Convention, which is a gain to
me, as here I get companionship. There is a recess of a couple of hours, too, in the middle
of the day, which the members avail themselves of for their very early dinner, but which we
employ, and I enjoy immensely, in riding about the neighboring country. It is not thought expedient
that I should ride alone about this strange region, on a strange horse, so I am escorted, at
which I rejoice for all sakes, as everybody's health here would be the better for more exercise
than they take.

This place, which is the seat of Government of the State of Pennsylvania, is beautifully situated
in a valley locked round by purple highlands, through which runs the Susquehanna; in some parts
broad, bright, rapid, shallow, brawling, and broken by picturesque reefs of rock; in others,
deep and placid, bearing on its bosom beautiful wood-crowned islands, whose autumnal foliage,
through which the mellow sunshine is now pouring, gives them the appearance of fairyland planted
with golden woods.

The beautiful river is bountifully provided, too, with a most admirable species of trout, weighing
from two to four pounds, silvery white without, and pale pink within (just the complexion of
a fresh mushroom), and very excellent to eat, as well as lovely to behold.

Many of the members of the Convention have been kind enough to come and see me, and I have
attended one of their debates. They are for the most part uncultivated men, unlettered and
ungrammared; and those among them who are the best educated, or rather the least ignorant,
carry their small lore much as a school-boy carries his, stiffly, awkwardly, and ostentatiously:
an Eton sixth-form lad would beat any one of them in classical scholarship. But though in point
of intellectual acquirement, I do not find much here to excite my sympathy, there is abundant
matter of interest, as well as much that is curious and amusing to me in their intercourse.
The shrewdness, the sound sense, the original observations, and the experience of life of some
of these men are striking and remarkable. Though not one of them can speak grammatically, they
all speak fluently, boldly, readily, easily, without effort or hesitation. There is, of course,
among them, the usual proportion of well, and less well, witted individuals; and perhaps the
contrast is the more apparent because the education has here covered no natural deficiencies
and developed no natural gifts; so that there is not the usual superficial, civilized level
produced by a common intellectual training. The questions they discuss are often in themselves
interesting, though I cannot say that they often treat them in the most interesting manner....

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The play which I have called an "English Tragedy," was suggested by
    an incident in the life of Lord de Ros, which my father heard at
    dinner at Lady Blessington's, and, on his return from Gore House,
    related it to us. I wrote the principal scene of the third act the
    same evening, under the impression of the story I had just heard;
    and afterwards sketched out and wrote the drama, of which I had
    intended, at first, to write only that one scene.

    The whole fashionable world of London had been thrown into
    consternation by the discovery that Lord de Ros, premier Baron of
    England, cheated at cards. He was, notoriously, one of the most
    worthless men of his day; which circumstance never prevented his
    being perfectly well received by the men and women of the best
    English society. That he was an unprincipled profligate made him
    none the less welcome to his male associates, or their wives,
    sisters, and daughters; but when Lord de Ros cheated his
    fellow-gamblers at the Club, no further toleration of his wickedness
    was, of course, possible; and then every infamous story, which, if
    believed, should have made him intolerable to decent people before,
    was told and re-told; and it seemed to me, that of all the evil
    deeds laid to his charge, his cheating at cards was quite the least
    evil.

    Lady Ellesmere, from whom I heard a story of his cold-blooded
    profligacy far more dreadful than that on which I founded my
    "English Tragedy," told me that she thought Lord de Ros's influence
    had been exceedingly detrimental to her brother, Charles Greville,
    who was his most intimate friend; and who, she said, burst into
    tears in speaking to her of it, when the fact of his cheating was
    discovered,--certainly a strong proof of affection from such a man
    to such a man; and I remember how eagerly and earnestly he
    endeavored to persuade me that the incident on which I had founded
    my "English Tragedy" had not been so profoundly base on Lord de
    Ros's part as I supposed.

    Besides the revival of these tragical stories of his misdeeds, the
    poor man's disgrace gave rise to some bitter jokes among his friends
    of the club-house and gambling-table. An epitaph composed for him to
    this effect was circulated among his intimates:--

    "Here lies Henry, twenty-sixth Baron de Ros, in joyful expectation
    of the last trump."

    Of course he was cut by all his noble associates; and Lord Alvanley,
    being hailed one day by some of them with an inquiry as to whether
    it was true that he had called on De Ros, replied, "I left a card on
    Lord de Ros, and I marked it, that he might know it was an honor."]

                              HARRISBURG, Saturday, November 11th, 1837.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

It seems useless for me to wait any longer for the chance of giving you some definite idea
of our plans, for day after day passes without their assuming anything like a decided form,
and I am now as uncertain of what is to become of us when the Convention leaves this place,
as I was when I saw you in New York.

From the date of your last, I perceive that you have taken your intended trip [to the Sault
St. Marie, and some of the then little frequented Canadian Lake scenery]. I rejoice at this,
as your health must, of course, be better than when you wrote to me before, and I think the
scenery and people you are now amongst fit to renovate a sick body and soothe a sore mind.
[Mrs. Jameson was staying at Stockbridge, with the Sedgwick family.] Catherine Sedgwick is
my best friend in this country, but the whole family have bestowed more kindness upon me than
I can ever sufficiently acknowledge.... They have all been exceedingly good to me, and the
place of their dwelling combines for me the charms of great natural beauty with the associations
that belong to the intellect and the affections.

After your first letter from New York, I never rested till I got Mrs. Griffith's review of
your book. The composition itself did not surprise me, but what did a little--only a little
(for I am growing old, and have almost done with being surprised at anything), was that such
a production should have gained admission into one of the principal magazines of this country;
it is a sad specimen, truly, of the periodical literature it accepts.... Criticism in periodical
journals is apt to be slightly malignant, ... and more often the result of personal sentiment
than impartial literary or artistic judgment: so that I rather admired the article in question
for its ignorance and vulgarity than the qualities which it exhibited in common with other
criticisms to be met with in our own periodical literature, which, however unjust or partial
in their censures and commendations, are decidedly inferior to Mrs. Griffith's composition
in the two qualities I have specified....

My baby acquired a cough in coming from Philadelphia to this place in a railroad carriage (car,
as they are called here), which held sixty-four persons in one compartment, and from which
we were all obliged to alight, and walk a quarter of a mile through the woods, because the
railroad, though traveled upon, is not finished.

We are here upon the banks of the Susquehanna, and surrounded by fine blue outlines of mountainous
country. How thankful I am that God did not despise beauty! He is the sole provider of it here.

                              Believe me ever yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

P. S.--"A change has come o'er the spirit of my dream" since yesterday; upon due deliberation,
it is determined that when the Convention goes to Philadelphia we shall take possession of
Butler Place; and therefore (however uncomfortably), I shall be able to receive you there after
the first of next month. If a half-furnished house and half-broken household do not deter you,
you will find me the same you have ever known me, there, as elsewhere,

                              Yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                            PHILADELPHIA, Thursday, November 20th, 1837.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

I write in haste, for I find our garden-cart is just starting for town, and I wish this to
be taken immediately to the post-office. I was beginning to be almost anxious about you, when
your letter from Boston arrived, to remove the apprehension of your being again ill, which
I feared must be the case.

You tell me that you will let me know the day on which to expect you in Philadelphia, and bid
me, if I cannot receive you in my house, seek out a shelter for you. The inconveniences, I
fear, are yours, and not mine; though a residence of even a few days in an American boarding-house,
must, I should think, make even the discomforts of my housekeeping seem tolerable. But that
you are yourself likely to be a sufferer in so doing, I should not be sorry to show you the
quite indescribable difference between an English and an American home and household; which,
I assure you, nothing less than seeing is believing.

From your bidding me, if I intended to relinquish your visit (which I do not), seek you a lodging
near me, I do not think that you understand that we live six miles from town, and see as little
of Philadelphia as if that six were sixty. This circumstance, too, made me hesitate as to whether
I ought to remove you from seeing what there is to be seen there--which is little enough, to
be sure,--and withdraw you beyond the reach of those civilities which you would receive on
all hands in the city. All this, though, is for yourself to determine on; bed, board, and welcome,
we tender you freely; your room, and the inkstand you desire in it, shall be ready on the day
you name; and we will joyfully meet you when and where you please to be met, and convey you
to our abode, where I can positively promise you absolute quiet, which perhaps in itself may
not be unacceptable, after all your mind and body have gone through during your stay in this
country.

The Reform Convention is now sitting in Philadelphia, and is no mean curiosity of its kind,
I assure you; I should like you to see and hear it.

                              Ever yours truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Mrs. Jameson paid us a short, sad visit, and returned to Europe
    with the bitter disappointment of her early life confirmed, to
    resume her honorable and laborious career of literary industry. Her
    private loss was the public gain. When next we met, it was in
    England.]

                                BRANCHTOWN, Friday, December 29th, 1837.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

Doubtless you have long ago accounted your kind letter lost, for I am sure you would not imagine
that I could have received, and yet so long delayed to answer it: yet so it is; and I hardly
know how to account for it, for the receipt of your letter gratified and touched me very much;
the more so, probably, that my father and mother hardly ever write to any of us, and so a letter
from any one much my senior always seems to me a condescension; and though I may have appeared
so, believe me, I am not ungrateful for your kindness in making the effort of writing to me....

I wish it were in my power to give you a decent excuse for not having written sooner, but the
more I reflect, the less I can think what I have been doing; yet I have been, and am, busy
incessantly from morning to night, about nothing. My whole life passes in trifling activities,
and small recurring avocations, which do not each seem to occupy an hour, and yet at last weigh
down the balance of the twenty-four. I cannot name the thing I do, and but that our thoughts
are to be revealed at the Day of Judgment, I should on that occasion be in the knife-grinder's
case: "Story! Lord bless you! I have none to tell, sir!" for except ordering my dinner (and
eating it), and riding on horseback every day, I have no distinct idea of any one thing I accomplish.
Mine is not a life of much excitement, yet the time goes, and all the more rapidly, perhaps,
that it flows with uninterrupted monotony. I neither read, write, nor cast up accounts; and
shall soon have to begin again with the first elements. Do you not think that an ignorance,
unbroken even by the slightest tincture of these, would be rather a fine thing for one's original
powers? If one did nothing but a "deal of thinking," perhaps one's thinking might be something
worth. Is it not Goethe who says: "Thought expands and weakens the mind; action contracts and
strengthens it"? If this be true, mine should be an intellect of vast extent, and too shallow
to drown a fly....

Do you know that I consider pain and disease as inventions of our own; and every death unnatural,
but that gradual decay of all the faculties, and cessation of all the functions, which is,
as we manage matters now, the rarest termination of human existence? Therefore, besides pitying
people when they are ill, I blame them too, unless their suffering be an inheritance, the visitation
of God, even unto the third and fourth generation, for disobedience to His wise and beneficent
laws. One would think, if this belief in hereditary retribution was real, instead of a mere
profession, people would be thoughtful, if not for themselves, at least for those to whom they
are to transmit a healthy or diseased nature; one sees so much sin and so much suffering, the
manifest causes of which lie at our own doors....

Thank you for your account of Lady Beecher; she always made a most pleasing impression upon
me. I think, however you must be mistaken in saying that she and I excited our audiences alike:
I should think that impossible in such very dissimilar actresses as we must have been. The
quantity of effect produced, of course I cannot judge of; but it seems to me, from what I have
seen and known of her off the stage, that the quality must have been essentially different.
This theme, however, should not be begun in the corner of a letter already too long.

Your letter was brought to me into the Harrisburg Convention, whose sessions I once or twice
attended. That Convention was very funny, and very strange, and very interesting too; I've
a great mind to write Lord Dacre an account of it, because, you know, you disclaim being a
"political lady," though I presume you admit that he is a "political lord." And that reminds
me that no democrat would accept your three-legged stool and its inferences [Lady Dacre had
compared the stability of our Government, by the Sovereign, the Lords, and the Commons, to
a solid, three-legged stool, contrasting it disadvantageously with that of the United States],
for nature scorns plurality of means where one suffices; and the broadest shadowing tree needs
but one stem, if the root be deep and widespread enough. This is merely by the way, for I am
as little "political" as you are.

Give my love to Lord Dacre, if that is respectful enough; and also to Mrs. Sullivan, whose
intercourse, briefly as I was able to enjoy it, was very delightful to me.

                              Affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                               PHILADELPHIA, Tuesday, January 8th, 1838.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I am not prone to that hungry longing for letters which you have so often expressed to me,
yet I was getting heart-sick for some intelligence from some of my dear ones beyond the seas.
My own people have not written to me since I left England, and it seemed to me an age since
I had heard from you. The day before yesterday, however, brought me letters from you and Emily,
and they were dearly welcome.

A poor woman, who of course had more children than she could well feed or honestly provide
for, said to me the other day, alluding to my solitary blessing in that kind, that "Providence
had spared me wonderfully." ... How fatal this notion, so prevalent among the poor and ignorant,
and even the less ignorant and better-to-do classes, is!--this fathering of our progeny upon
Providence, which produces so much misery, and so much crime to boot, in our swarming pauper
populations. I have had it in my mind lately once or twice, to write an "Apology for," or "Defense
of" Providence. I am sick of hearing so much misery, so much suffering, so much premature death,
and so much unnecessary disease, laid to the charge of our best Friend, our Father who is in
heaven. Moreover, it is the good (not the reasonable, though) who bring these railing accusations
against Providence. Let what calamity soever visit them, they never bethink themselves of their
own instrumentality in the business; but with a resignation quite more provoking than praiseworthy,
turn up their eyes, and fold their hands, and miscall it a dispensation of Providence. The
only application of that "technical" term that I ever heard with pleasure, was that of the
delightfully devout old Scotch lady, who said, "Hech, sirs, I'm never weary of reflecting on
the gracious dispensations of Providence towards myself, and its righteous judgments on my
neighbors!" Doubtless, God has ordained that sin and folly shall produce suffering, that the
consequences may warn us from the causes. Madame de Staël, whose brilliancy, I think, has rather
thrown into the shade her very considerable common sense, has well said, "Le secret de l'existence,
c'est le rapport de nos peines avec nos fautes." And to acknowledge the just and inevitable
results of our own actions only as the inscrutable caprices of an inscrutable Will, is to forego
one of the most impressive aspects of the great goodness and wisdom of the Providence by which
we are governed. Death, and the decay which should be its only legitimate preparation, are
not contrary to a right conception of either. But instead of sitting down meekly under what
godly folks call "mysterious dispensations" of the Divinity, I think, if I took their view
of such unaccountable inflictions, I should call them devilish rather than Divine, and certainly
go mad, or very bad. Bearing the righteous result of our own actions, while we suffer, we can
adore the mercy that warns us from evil by its unavoidable penalties, at the same time remembering
that even our sins, duly acknowledged, and rightly used, may be our gain, through God's merciful
provision, that our bitterest experience may become to us a source of virtue and a means of
progress. The profound sense of the justice of our Maker renders all things endurable; but
the idea of the arbitrary infliction of misery puts one's whole soul in revolt. Wretchedness
poured upon us, we cannot conceive why or whence, may well be intolerable; suffering resulting
from our own faults may be borne courageously, and with a certain comfort,--forgive the apparent
paradox--the comfort is general, the discomfort individual; and if one is not too selfish,
one may rejoice in a righteous law, even though one suffers by it. Moreover, if evil have its
inevitable results, has not good its inseparable consequences? If the bad deeds of one involve
many in their retribution, the well-doing of one spreads incalculable good in all directions.
It is because we are by no means wholly selfish, that the consequences of our actions affect
others as well as ourselves; so that we are warned a thousand ways to avoid evil and seek good,
for the whole world's sake, as well as our own.

What a sermon I have written you! But it was my thought, and therefore, I take it, as good
to you as anything else I could have said.

Of course, children cannot love their parents understandingly until they become parents themselves;
then one thinks back upon all the pain, care, and anxiety which for the first time one becomes
aware has been expended on one, when one begins in turn to experience them for others. But
the debt is never paid back. Our children get what was given to us, and give to theirs what
they got from us. Love descends, and does not ascend; the self-sacrifice of parents is its
own reward; children can know nothing of it. In the relations of the old with the young, however,
the tenderness and sympathy may well be on the elder side; for age has known youth, but youth
has not known age.

You say you are surprised I did not express more admiration of Harriet Martineau's book about
America. But I do admire it--the spirit of it--extremely. I admire her extremely; but I think
the moral, even more than the intellectual, woman. I do not mean that she may not be quite
as wise as she is good; but she has devoted her mind to subjects which I have not, and probably
could not, have given mine to, and writes upon matters of which I am too ignorant to estimate
her merit in treating of them. Some of her political theories appear to me open to objection;
for instance, female suffrage and community of property; but I have never thought enough upon
these questions to judge her mode of advocating them. The details of her book are sometimes
mistaken; but that was to be expected, especially as she was often subjected to the abominable
impositions of persons who deceived her purposely in the information which she received from
them with the perfect trust of a guileless nature. I do entire justice to her truth, her benevolence,
and her fearlessness; and these are to me the chief merits of her book....

When Sully, the artist who painted the picture of me now in your possession, found that it
did not give entire satisfaction, he refused to receive any payment for it, saying that he
wished to have it back, because, as a work of art, it was valuable to him, and that he would
execute another likeness (what a good word execute is, so applied!) upon me, instead of that
you have. We have never been able to alter this determination of his, and therefore, as he
will not take his money, he should have his picture back. So, Harriet, dear, pack me up, and
send me to Messrs. Harrison and Latham, Liverpool; and as soon as Sully returns from England,
where he now is, you shall have another and, if possible, a better likeness of me; though I
do not feel very sanguine about it, for Sully's characteristic is delicacy rather than power,
and mine may not be power, but certainly is not delicacy....

Alas! my dear Harriet, the little stone-pine [a seedling planted by my friend from a pine-cone
she brought from Italy], in one of our stormy nights at sea, was dislodged from its place of
security and thrown out of the pot with all the mould. I watched its decay with extreme regret,
and even fell into some morbid and superstitious fancies about it; but I could still cry to
think that what would have been such a source of pleasure to dear Emily, and might have prospered
so well with her, was thus unavailingly bestowed upon me. It made quite a sore place in my
heart....

God bless you, dear.

                              I am ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                       PHILADELPHIA, February 6th, 1838.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

The box and two letters arrived safely about a week ago. I read over my old journal: this returning
again into the midst of old events and feelings, affected my spirits at first a good deal....
Of course this passed off, and it afforded me much amusement to look over these archives, ancient
as they now almost appear to me.... It surely is wisdom most difficult of attainment, to form
a correct estimate of things or people while we are under their immediate influence: the just
value of character, the precise importance of events, or the true estimate of joy and sorrow,
while one is subject to their action and pressure. I suppose, with my quick and excitable feelings,
I shall never attain even so much of this moral power of comparison and just appreciation as
others may; but it cannot be easy to anybody.... Habitual accuracy of thought and moderation
of feeling, of course, will help one to conjecture how our present will look when it has become
past; but the mind that is able to do this must be naturally just, and habitually trained to
justice. With the majority of people, their present must always preponderate in interest; and
it is right that it should, since our work is in the present, though our hopes may be in the
future, as our memories and examples must be in the past. There must be some of this intense,
vivid feeling about what is immediate, to enable us to do the work of now--to bear the burden,
surmount the impediment, and appreciate the blessing of now. St. Paul very wisely bade us "beget
a temperance in all things" (I wish he had told us how to do it). He also said, "Behold, now
is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation." ...

The medical mode of treatment in this country appears to me frightfully severe, and I should
think, with subjects as delicate as average American men and women, it might occasionally be
fatal. I have a violent prejudice against bleeding, and would rather take ten doses of physic,
and fast ten days, than lose two ounces of my blood. Of course, in extreme cases, extreme remedies
must be resorted to; but this seems to be the usual system of treatment here, and I distrust
medical systems, and cannot but think that it might be safer to reduce the quality rather than
the quantity of the vital fluid. Abstinence, and vegetable and mineral matters of divers kinds,
seem to me natural remedies enough; but the merciless effusion of blood, because it is inflamed,
rather reminds me of my school-day cutting and gashing of my chilblains, in order to obtain
immediate relief from their irritation....

S----'s scarlet fever has been followed by the enlargement of one of the tonsils, which grew
to such a size as to threaten suffocation, and the physician decided that it must be removed.
This was done by means of a small double-barreled silver tube, through the two pipes of which
a wire is passed, coming out in a loop at the other end of the instrument. This wire being
passed round the tonsil, is tightened, so as to destroy its vitality in the course of four
and twenty hours, during which the tube remains projecting from the patient's mouth, causing
some pain and extreme inconvenience. The mode usually resorted to with adults (for this, it
seems, is a frequent operation here), is cutting the tonsil off at once; but as hemorrhage
sometimes results from this, which can only be stopped by cauterizing the throat, that was
not to be thought of with so young a patient.... At the end of the twenty-four hours, the instrument
is removed, the diseased part being effectually killed by the previous tightening of the wire.
It is then left to rot off in the mouth, which it does in the course of a few days, infecting
the breath most horribly, and, I should think, injuring the health by that means.... At the
same time, I was attacked with a violent sore throat, perhaps a small beginning of scarlet
fever of my own, and which seized, one after another, upon all our household, and for which
I had a hundred leeches at once applied to my throat, which, without reducing me very much,
enraged me beyond expression. No less than seven of us were ill in the house. We are now, however,
thank God, all well.... I cannot obtain from our physician any explanation whatever of the
cause of this swelling of the tonsils, so common here; and when, demurring about the removal
of my child's, I inquired into their functions, I received just as little satisfaction. He
told me that they were not ascertained, and that all that was known was, that removing them
did not affect the breathing, speaking, or swallowing--with which I had to be satisfied. This
uncertainty seems to me a reason against the operation; cutting away a part of the body whose
functions are not ascertained, seems to me rather venturesome; but of course the baby couldn't
be allowed to choke, and so we submitted to the inevitable. The disease and the remedy are
common here, and may be in England, though I never heard of them before. Pray, if you know
anything about either, write me what, as I cannot rest satisfied without more information....

God bless you, dear.

                              Always affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                           PHILADELPHIA, Wednesday, February 21st, 1838.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

Although it was a considerable disappointment to me not to see you again, after the various
rumors and last most authentic announcement of your coming to Philadelphia, yet, upon the whole,
I think it is as well that we did not meet again, simply to renew that dismalest of ceremonies,
leave-taking. I had not the hope which you expressed, that a second edition of our parting
would have been less painful than the first.... I think I should have felt less gloomily on
that occasion, if I had not had to leave you in such a dismal den of discomfort. External things
always, even in moments of strong emotion, affect me powerfully; and that dreariest room, the
door of which closed between us, left a most forlorn impression upon my memory.

I have been of late myself living in an atmosphere darkened by distress.... Typhus fever has
carried off our most intimate friend, Mr. B----, after but a fortnight's illness; and closed,
almost at its opening, a career which, under all worldly aspects, was one of fair and goodly
promise. He has left a young widow, to whom he had been married scarcely more than two years,
and a boy-baby who loses in him such a preceptor as few sons in this country are trained under.
I have lost in him one of the few persons who cheer and make endurable my residence here. Doubtless
our loss is reckoned by Him who decrees it, and I pray that none of us, by impatience of suffering,
may forfeit the precious uses of sorrow. Our friend and neighbor, W----, has just endured a
most dreadful affliction in the death of his youngest child, his only daughter, one girl among
six sons, the very darling of his heart, loved above all the others, who, while she was still
a baby, not a year old, drew from him that ludicrously pathetic exclamation, "Oh, the man that
marries one's daughter must be hateful!" She died of scarlet fever, which, after passing so
lightly by our doorposts, has entered, like the destroying angel, our poor friend's dwelling.
His brother has been at the point of death with it too, and I cannot but rejoice in trembling
when I think how happily we escaped from this terrible plague. As you may suppose, my spirits
have been a good deal affected by all the sorrow around me.

Mirabile dictu! I have read the volume of Scott's Life which you left here, also the volume
of Miss Edgeworth, with which I was disappointed; also the volume of Milton: not the Treatise
on Divorce, and the Areopagitica, alone; but Letters, Apologies for Smectymnuus, and Denunciations
against Episcopacy, and all. Did you do as much? Moreover, I am just finishing Carlyle's "French
Revolution"; so that you see, as my friend Mr. F---- says, I am improving; and if I should
ever happen to read another book, I will be sure to mention the circumstance in my letters.

                              Very truly yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                        March 9th, 1838.
  DEAREST EMILY,

I am almost ashamed to say I forgot the anniversary your letter recalls to me; but the artificial
or conventional epochs which used to divide my time, and the particular days against which
affection set its special marks, are, by degrees, losing their peculiar associations for me.
Even the great division of all, death, which makes us miscall a portion of eternity Time (as
if it were different from, or other than, it), seems less of an interruption to me than it
did formerly. Is it not all one, let us parcel it out as we will into hours, days, months,
years, or lifetimes? The boundary line exists in our narrow calculation alone. The greatest
change of all the changes we know, to mortal senses implying almost cessation of being, to
the believer in the immortality of spirit suggests not even the idea of change, in what relates
to the soul, so much as uninterrupted progress, and the gradual lengthening of the chain of
moral consequence, inseparable from one's conception of a responsible, rational agent, whose
existence is to be eternal.

No doubt there are properties of our minds which find delight in order, symmetry, recurring
arrangement, and regular division; and the harmonious course of the material world, alternately
visited by the sweet succession of day and night, the seasons, and all their lovely variety
of gradation, naturally creates the idea of definite periods, to which we give definite names;
but with God and with our souls there is no time, and this material world in which our material
bodies are existing is but a shadow or reflection cast upon the surface of that uninterrupted
stream on which our true and very selves are borne onward; the real, the existing is within us.

I think it probable that the general disregard of times and seasons formerly observed by me,
in the community where I now live, may have tended to lessen my regard for them; but, besides
this, in thinking of anniversaries connected with those I love--periods which used to appeal
to my affectionate remembrance,--I have come in a measure to feel that to the very young alone,
these marks we draw upon our life can appear other than as the fictitious lines with which
science has divided the spheres of heaven and earth.

                               PHILADELPHIA, Saturday, March 18th, 1838.

Touching my picture, my dearest Harriet, I am desired to say that your spirited defense of
your right to it (whether you like it or not) is admirable; that it certainly shall not be
taken from you by force, and that there was no intention whatever of infuriating you by the
civil proposal that was made to relieve you of it by sending you a more satisfactory one, under
the impression that you are not satisfied with what you have.

My dear, the first two pages of your letter might have been written with a turkey-cock's quill,
they actually gobble in the pugnacity of their style, and as it lies by me, the very paper
goes fr-fr-fr. But you shall keep that identical picture, my dearest, since you have grown
to like it; so shake your feathers smooth again, funny woman that you are! and let your soul
return into its rest.

Sully is now in England. I wish there were any chance of your seeing him, but after remaining
there long enough to paint the queen, he intends visiting Paris for a short time and then returning
home. He is a great friend of mine, and one of the few people here that I find pleasure in
associating with. As his delicacy about being paid for the picture arose from the idea that,
not being satisfied with the likeness, you probably did not care to keep it, I have no doubt
that, the present state of your regard for it being made clear to him, he will not object any
more to receiving the price of it.

I presume that the long chapter you have written me upon the inevitability of people's folly
and the expediency of believing, first, that God makes us fools, and then that he punishes
us for behaving like fools, is a result of your impeded circulation, under the effect of the
east wind upon your cuticle. How I wish, without the bitter month's sea-sickness, you could
be here beside me now, this 24th of March, between an open window and door, and with my fire
dying out; to be sure, as I have just been taking two monstrous unruly dogs to a pond at some
distance from the house, for a swim, and as S---- was with me and I had to carry her (now a
pretty heavy lump) through several mud passages, the agreeable glow in which I feel myself
may not be altogether due to the warmth of the atmosphere, although it is really as hot as
our last of May. How I wish you could spend the summer with me! How you would rejoice in the
heat, to me so hateful and intolerable! To persons of your temperament, I suppose hell, instead
of the popular idea of fire and brimstone, presents some such frigid horror as poor Claudio's:
"thrilling regions of thick-ribbed ice."

I was walking once with Trelawney, who is as chilly as an Italian greyhound, at Niagara, by
a wall of rock, upon which the intense sun beat, and was reflected upon us till I felt as if
I was being roasted alive, and exclaimed, "Oh, this is hell itself!" to which he replied with
a grunt of dissatisfaction, "Oh, dear, I hope hell will be a great deal warmer than this!"

In my observation about the development of our filial affections after we become parents ourselves,
I may have fallen into my usual error of generalizing from too narrow a basis, and taken it
for granted that my own experience is necessarily that of others.... But after all, though
everybody is not like me, somebody must be, and one's self is therefore a safe source from
whence to draw conclusions with regard to others, up to a certain point. Made of the same element,
however diversely fashioned and tempered by various influences, we still are all alike in the
main ingredients of our humanity; and it must be quite as contrary to sound sense to imagine
the processes of one's own mind singular, as to suppose them universal.

Profound truism! but truisms are profound--they lie at the foundations of existence--for they
are truths.

My journal is fast disappearing behind the fire. How I wish I had spent the time I wasted in
writing it, in making extracts from the books I read!...

I wrote my sister a long answer, by Mrs. Jameson, to her last letter, in which I entered at
some length upon the various objections to a public life; not that I was then aware of the
decision she has now adopted of going upon the stage--a decision, however, for which I have
been entirely prepared ever since my visit to England and my return home.... I hope she may
succeed to the fullest extent of her desires, for I do not think that hers is a nature that
would be benefited by the bitter medicine of disappointment. Oh, how I wish she could once
enter some charmed sphere of peace and happiness! The discipline of happiness, in which I have
infinite faith, would I think be of infinite use to her, but--God knows best.... I am anxious,
too, that her experiment of a life of excitement should be the most favorable possible, that,
under its happiest aspect, she may learn how remote it is from happiness.... Had she remained
in England, I should have rejoiced to think that Mrs. Somerville was her friend: such a friend
would be God's minister to the heart and mind of any young woman. It is not a small source
of regret to me, to think of how much inestimable human intercourse my residence in America
deprives me.

I think my father's selecting Paris for the first trial of my sister's abilities a mistake;
and I am very, very anxious about the result.

Natural talent is sufficient for a certain degree of success in acting, but not in singing,
where the expression of feeling, the dramatic portion of the performance, is so severely trammeled
by mechanical difficulties: the execution of which is all but rendered impossible by the slightest
trepidation, the tone of the voice itself being often fatally affected by the loss of self-possession.

Pasta and Malibran both failed at first in Paris, and I confess I shall be most painfully anxious
till I hear the issue of this experiment....

I am in the garden from morning till night, but am too impatient for mortal roots and branches.
I should have loved the sort of planting described in Tieck's "Elves," where they stamp a pine-cone
into the earth, and presently a fir-tree springs up, and, rising towards the sky with the happy
children who plant it, rocks them on its topmost branches, to and fro in the red sunset.

Good-bye, God bless you.

                              I am ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Many years after these letters were written, in 1845, when I
    joined my sister in Rome, I found her living in the most cordial
    intimacy with the admirable woman whose acquaintance I had coveted
    for her and for myself.

    My year's residence in Rome gave me frequent opportunities of
    familiar intercourse with Mrs. Somerville, whose European celebrity,
    the result of her successful devotion to the highest scientific
    studies, enhanced the charm of her domestic virtues, her tender
    womanly character, and perfect modesty and simplicity of manner.

    During my last visit to Rome, in 1873, speaking to the old blind
    Duke of Sermoneta, of my desire to go to Naples to pay my respects
    to Mrs. Somerville, who was then residing there, at an extremely
    advanced age, he said, "Elle est si bonne, si savante, et si
    charmante, que la mort n'ose point la toucher." I was unable to
    carry out my plan of going to Naples, and Mrs. Somerville did not
    long survive the period at which I had hoped to have visited her.

    Early in our acquaintance I had expressed some curiosity, not
    unmixed with dread, upon the subject of scorpions, never having seen
    one. Mrs. Somerville laughed, and said that a sojourn in Italy was
    sure to introduce them sooner or later to me. The next time that I
    spent the evening with her after this conversation, as I stood by
    the chimney talking to her, I suddenly perceived a most
    detestable-looking black creature on the mantelpiece. I started back
    in horror to my hostess's great delight, as she had been at the
    pains of cutting out in black paper an imitation scorpion, for my
    edification, and was highly satisfied with the impression it
    produced upon me.

    Urania's reptile, however, was the conventional mythical scorpion of
    the Zodiac, and only vaguely represented the evil-looking, venomous
    beast with which I subsequently became, according to her prophecy,
    acquainted, in all its natural living repulsiveness.

    Besides this sample scorpion, which I have carefully preserved, I
    have two drawings which Mrs. Somerville made for me; one, a delicate
    outline sketch of what is called Othello's House in Venice, and the
    other, a beautifully executed colored copy of his shield, surmounted
    by the Doge's cap, and bearing three mulberries for a
    device,--proving the truth of the assertion, that the Otelli del
    Moro were a noble Venetian folk, who came originally from the
    Morea, whose device was the mulberry, the growth of that country,
    and showing how curious a jumble Shakespeare has made, both of name
    and device, in calling him a Moor and embroidering his arms on
    his handkerchief as strawberries. In Cinthio's novel, from which
    Shakespeare probably took his story, the husband is a Moor, and I
    think called by no other name.]

                                            PHILADELPHIA, May 7th, 1838.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I fear this will scarce reach you before you leave England upon your German pilgrimage, but
I presume it will follow you, and be welcome wherever it finds you.

Do you hear that the steamships have accomplished their crossing from England to America in
perfect safety, the one in seventeen, the other in fifteen days! just half the usual time,
thirty days being the average of the finest passages this way. Oh, if you knew what joy this
intelligence gave me! It seemed at once to bring me again within reach of England and all those
whom I love there.

And even though I should not therefore return thither the oftener, the speed and certainty
with which letters will now pass between these two worlds, hitherto so far apart, is a thing
to rejoice at exceedingly. Besides all personal considerations in the matter, the wonder and
delight of seeing this great enterprise of man's ingenuity and courage thus successful is immense.
One of the vessels took her departure for England the other day, filled with passengers, and
sent from the wharf with a thousand acclamations and benedictions. The mere report of it overcame
me with emotion; thus to see space annihilated, and the furthest corners of the earth drawn
together, fills one with admiration for this amazing human nature, more potent than the whole
material creation by which it is surrounded, even than the three thousand miles of that Atlantic
abyss. These manifestations of the power of man's intellect seem to me to cry aloud to him
to "stand in awe [of his own nature] and sin not." And yet these victories over matter are
nothing compared to the achievements of human souls, with their powers of faith, of love, and
of endurance. I will not, however, inflict further exclamations upon you....

Certainly mere details of personal being, doing, and suffering are of some value when one would
almost give one's eyes for a moment's sight of the bodily presence of the soul one loves: so
you shall have my present history; which is, that at this immediate writing, I am sitting in
a species of verandah (or piazza, as they call it here), which runs along the front of the
house. It has a low balustrade and columns of white-painted wood, supporting a similar verandah
on the second or bedroom story of the house; the sitting-rooms are all on the ground floor.
It is Sunday morning, but I am obliged to be content with such devotions and admonitions as
I can enjoy here, from within and around me, as my plight does not admit of my leaving home....

I am sorry to say that the fact of letters miscarrying between this country and England has
been very disagreeably proved to me this morning by the receipt of one from dear William Harness,
who mentions having written another to me five months ago, which other has never yet made its
appearance, and I presume would hardly think it worth while to do so now.

We have had an uncommonly mild winter, without, I think, more than a fortnight of severe weather,
and in March the sun was positively summer hot. I am out of doors almost all day. Our spring,
however, has made up for the lenient winter, by being as cold and capricious as possible, and
at this moment hardly a fruit-tree is in blossom or a lilac-tree in bud; and looking abroad
over the landscape, 'tis only here and there that I can detect faint symptoms of that exquisite
green haze which generally seems to hang like a halo over the distant woods at this season.
I do not remember so backward a spring since I have been in this country. I do not complain
of it, however, though everybody else does; for the longer the annihilating heat of the summer
keeps off, the better the weather suits me. Will you not come over and spend the summer with
me, now that the sea voyage is only half as long as it was? Come, and we will go to Niagara
together, and you shall be half roasted alive for full five months, an effectual warming through,
I should think, for the rest of the year. Dear Harriet, Niagara is the one thing of its kind
for which no fellow has yet been found in the world, and to see it is certainly worth a fortnight's
sea-sickness. I cannot say more in its praise.

You speak of the sufferings of your wretched Irish population; and because patience, fortitude,
benevolence, charity, and many good fruits spring from that bitter root, you seem to be reconciled
to the fact that ignorance and imprudence are the real causes from which the greater part of
this frightful misery proceeds.

Though God's infinite mercy has permitted that even our very errors and sins may become, if
we please, sources of virtue in, and therefore of good to, us, do you not think that our nature,
such as He has seen fit to form it, with imperfection in its very essence, and such a transition
as death in its experience, furnishes us with a sufficient task in the mere ceaseless government
and education which it requires, without our superadding to this difficult charge the culpability
of infinite neglect, the absolute damage and injury and all the voluntary deterioration, sin,
and sorrow which we inflict upon ourselves?

Why are we to charge God with all these things, or conceive it possible that He ordained a
state of existence in which mercy's supplication would be that sudden death might sweep a hundred
sufferings of worse kind from the face of the earth?

God is unwearied in producing good; and we can so little frustrate His determinate and omnipotent
goodness, that out of our most desperate follies and wickednesses the ultimate result is sure
to be preponderating good; but does this excuse the sinners and fools who vainly attempt to
thwart His purpose? or will they be permitted to say that they are "tempted of God"? Indeed,
dear Harriet, I must abide in the conviction that we manufacture misery for ourselves which
was never appointed for us; and because Mercy, unfailing and unbounded, out of these very miseries
of our own making, draws blessed balsam for our use, I cannot believe that it ordained and
inflicted all our sufferings.

I began this letter yesterday, and am again sitting under my piazza, with S----, in a buff
coat, zigzagging like a yellow butterfly about the lawn, and Margery mounting guard over her,
with such success as you may fancy a person taking care of a straw in a high wind likely to
have.... I have just been enjoying the pleasure of a visit from one of the members of the Sedgwick
family. They are all my friends, and I do think all and each in their peculiar way good and
admirable. Catharine Sedgwick has been prevented from coming to me by the illness of the brother
in whose family she generally spends the winter in New York.... Like most business men here,
he has lived in the deplorable neglect of every physical law of health, taking no exercise,
immuring himself for the greater part of the day in rooms or law courts where the atmosphere
was absolute poison; and using his brains with intense application, without ever allowing himself
proper or sufficient relaxation. Now, will you tell me that Providence intended that this man
should so labor and so suffer? Why, the very awfulness of the consequence forbids such a supposition
for a moment. Or will you, perhaps, say that this dire calamity was sent upon him in order
to try the fortitude, patience, and resignation of his wife, within a month of her confinement;
or of his sister, whose nervous sensibility of temperament was of an order to have been driven
insane, had they not been mercifully relieved from the worst results of the fatal imprudence
of poor R----?

Whenever I see that human beings do act up as fully as they can to all the laws of their Maker,
I shall be prepared to admire misery, agony, sickness, and all tortures of mind or body as
excellent devices of the Deity, expressly appointed for our benefit; but while I see obvious
and abundant natural causes for them in our disobedience to His laws, I shall scarce come to
that conclusion, in spite of all the good which He makes for us out of our evil. I know we
must sin, but we sin more than we must; and I know we must suffer, but we suffer more than
we must too....

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                         PHILADELPHIA, Sunday, May 27th.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

I have received within the last few days your second letter from London; the date, however,
is rather a puzzle, it being August the 10th, instead (I presume) of April. I hasten, while
I am yet able, to send you word of R. S----'s rapid and almost complete recovery....

In spite of the admirable forethought which prompted the beginning of this letter, my dear
Mrs. Jameson, it is now exactly a fortnight since I wrote the above lines; and here I am at
my writing-table, in my drawing-room, having in the interim perpetrated another girl baby....
My new child was born on the same day of the month that her sister was, and within an hour
of the same time, which I think shows an orderly, systematic, and methodical mode of proceeding
in such matters, which is creditable to me.... I should have been unhappy at the delay of my
intelligence about R. S----, but that I feel sure Catharine must ere this have written to you
herself. I am urging her might and main to come to us and recruit a little, but, like all other
very good people, she thinks she can do something better than take care of herself; a lamentable
fallacy, for which good people in particular, and the world in general, suffer.

As you may suppose, I do not yet indulge in the inditing of very long epistles, and shall therefore
make no apology for this, which is almost brief enough to be witty. I am glad you like Sully,
because I love him.

                              I am ever yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                     BUTLER PLACE, 1838.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

This purposes to be an answer to a letter of yours dated the 10th of May; the last I have received
from you.... I cannot for the life of me imagine why we envelope death in such hideous and
mysterious dreadfulness, when, for aught we can tell, being born is to an infant quite as horrible
and mysterious a process, perhaps (for we know nothing about it) of a not much different order.
The main difference lies in the fact of our anticipation of the one event--ma, chî sa?--but
although some fear of death is wholesomely implanted in us, to make us shun danger and to prevent
the numbers who, without it, would impatiently rush away from the evils of their present existence
through that gate, yet certainly one-half of the King of Terror's paraphernalia we invest him
with ourselves; since, really, being born is quite as wonderful, and, when we consider the
involuntary obligations of existence thus thrust upon us, quite as awful a thing as dying can
possibly be.

You retort upon me for having fallen from the observance of anniversaries, that I am still
a devout worshiper of places, and in this sense, perhaps, an idolater.... My love for certain
places is inexplicable to myself. They have, for some reasons which I have not detected, so
powerfully affected my imagination, that it will thenceforth never let them go. I retain the
strongest impression of some places where I have stayed the shortest time; thus there is a
certain spot in the hill country of Massachusetts, called Lebanon, where I once spent two days....

I was going to tell you how like Paradise that place was to my memory, and with what curious
yearning I have longed to visit it again, but I was interrupted; and in the intervening hours
S---- has sickened of the measles, and I am now sitting writing by her bedside, not a little
disturbed by my own cogitations, and her multitudinous questions, the continuous stream of
which is nothing slackened by an atmosphere of 91° in the shade, and the furious fever of her
own attack....

As soon as S---- is sufficiently recovered, we purpose going to the seaside to escape from
the horrible heat. Our destination is a certain beach on the shore of Long Island, called Rockaway,
where there is fine bathing, and a good six miles of hard sand for riding and driving. After
that, I believe we shall go to the hill country of Berkshire, to visit our friends the Sedgwicks.
I wonder whether your love for heat would have made agreeable to you a six-mile ride I took
to-day, at about eleven o'clock, the thermometer standing at 94° in the shade. If this is not
more warmth than even you can away with, you must be "bold and determined like any salamander,
ma'am." ... My love for flowers is the same as ever. Last winter in London I almost ruined
myself in my nosegays, and came near losing my character by them, as nobody would believe I
was so gallant to myself out of my own pocket. My room is always full of them here, and in
spite of recollecting (which I always do in the very act of sticking flowers in my hair) that
I am upon the verge of thirty, they are still my favorite ornaments.

Thank you for your constant affection, my dear friend. It makes my heart sink to think how
much is lost to me in the distance that divides us. If death severs forever the ties of this
world, and our intercourse with one another here is but a temporary agency, ceasing with our
passage into another stage of existence, how strong a hold have you and I laid upon each other's
souls, to be sundered at the brief limit of this mortal life! It may possibly have accomplished
its full purpose, this dear friendship of ours, even here; but it is almost impossible to think
that its uses may not survive, or its duration extend beyond this life;--that is an awful thought
overshadowing all our earthly loves, yet throwing us more completely upon Him, the Father,
the Guardian of all; for on him alone can we surely rest always and forever. But how much must
death change us if we can forget those who have been as dear to us here as you and I have been
to each other!

A friend of mine asked me the other day if I thought we should have other senses hereafter,
and if I could imagine any but those we now possess: I cannot, can you? To be sure I can imagine
the possession of common sense, which would be a new one to me; but it is very funny, and impossible,
to try to fancy a power, like seeing or hearing, of a different kind, though one can think
of these with a higher degree of intensity, and wider scope.... Good-bye, dearest Harriet.
God bless you.

                              I am ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                   PHILADELPHIA, Monday, July 23d, 1838.

It is now high-summer mark, and such a summer as we are now dying under is scarcely remembered
by the oldest human creature yet extant in these parts. And where are you, my dear Mrs. Jameson?
Sojourning in Bohemian castles; or wandering among the ruins of old Athens? Which of your many
plans, or dreams of plans have you put into execution? I am both curious and anxious to know
something of your proceedings, and shall dispatch this at a hazard to your brother-in-law's,
where I suppose your movements will always be known, and your whereabouts heard of.

Your book is advertised I know, and if you have adhered to your former determination, you have
withdrawn yourself from your own blaze, and left England to profit by its light. Of myself
I can tell you little that is particularly cheerful....

The friends of good order, in this excellent city of brotherly love, have been burning down
a large new building erected for purposes of free discussion, because Abolition meetings were
being held in it; and the Southern steamer has been wrecked with dreadful loss of life, owing
to the exceeding small esteem in which its officers appear to have held that "quintessence
of dust, Man." The vessel was laden with Southerners, coming north for the summer; and I suppose
there is scarcely a family from Virginia to Florida, that is not in some way touched by this
dreadful and wanton waste of life.

Pray, when you have time, write me some word of your doing, being, and suffering, and

                              Believe me ever yours truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The above mention of shipwreck, refers to the disastrous loss of
    the Pulaski; an event, the horror of which was rendered more
    memorable to me by an episode of noble courage, of which our
    neighbor, Mr. James Cooper, of Georgia, was the hero, and of which I
    have spoken in the journal I kept during my residence on our
    plantation.]

                                          ROCKAWAY, Friday, August 10th.

Where are you, my dearest Harriet; and what are you doing? Drinking of queer-tasting waters,
and soaking in queer-smelling ones? Are you becoming saturated with sulphur, or penetrated
with iron? Are you chilling your inside with draughts from some unfathomable well, or warming
your outside with baths from some ready-boiled spring?

Oh! vainest quest of that torment, the love for the absent! Do you know, Harriet, that I have
more than once seriously thought of never writing any more to any of my friends? the total
cessation of intercourse would soon cause the acutest vividness of feeling to subside, and
become blunt (for so are we made): the fruitless feeling after, the vain eager pursuit in thought
of those whose very existence may actually have ceased, is such a wearisome pain! This being
linked by invisible chains to the remote ends of the earth, and constantly feeling the strain
of the distance upon one's heart,--this sort of death in life, for you are all so far away
that you are almost as bad as dead to me,--is a condition that I think makes intercourse (such
intercourse as is possible) less of a pleasure than of a pain; and the thought that so many
lives with which mine was mingled so closely are flowing away yonder, in vain for me here (and
of hereafter who can guess!), prevents my contentedly embracing my own allotted existence,
and keeps me still with eyes and thoughts averted towards the past, from the path of life I
am appointed to tread. If I could believe it right or kind, or that those who love me would
not be grieved by it, I really feel sometimes as if I could make up my mind to turn my thoughts
once and for all away from them, as from the very dead, and never more by this disjointed communion
revive, in all its acuteness, the bitter sense of loss and separation....

You see I discourse of my child's looks; for at present, indeed, I know of nothing else to
discourse about in her. Of her experiences in her former states of existence she says nothing,
though I try her as Shelley used to do the speechless babies that he met; and her observations
upon the present she also keeps religiously to herself, so that I get no profit of either her
wisdom or her knowledge....

The vast extent of this country offers every variety of climate which an invalid can require,
and its mineral waters afford the same remedies which are sought after in the famous European
baths. God has everywhere been bountiful, and doubtless no country is without its own special
natural pharmacopæia, its medicines, vegetable and mineral, and healing influences for human
disease and infirmity. The medicinal waters of this country are very powerful, and of every
variety, and I believe there are some in Virginia which would precisely answer our purpose....

We are now staying for a short time on the Long Island shore, at a place called Rockaway. As
I sit writing at my window here, the broad, smooth, blue expanse of the Atlantic stretches
out before me, and ships go sailing by that are coming from, or returning to, the lands where
you live.

You cannot conceive anything more strange, and to me more distasteful than the life which one
leads here. The whole watering-place consists of a few detached cottages, the property of some
individuals who are singular enough to comprehend the pleasure of privacy; and one enormous
hotel, a huge wooden building, of which we are at present among the inmates.

How many can sleep under this mammoth roof, I know not; but upwards of four hundred have sat
down at one time to feed in the boundless dining-hall. The number of persons now in the house
does not, I believe, exceed eighty, and everybody is lamenting the smallness of the company,
and the consequent dullness of the place; and I am perpetually called upon to sympathize with
regrets which I am so far from sharing, that I wish, instead of eighty, we had only eight fellow-lodgers....
The general way of life is very disagreeable to me. I cannot, do what I will, find anything
but constraint and discomfort in the perpetual presence of a crowd of strangers. The bedrooms
are small, and furnished barely as well as a common servant's room in England. They are certainly
not calculated for comfortable occupation or sitting alone in; but sitting alone any part of
the day is a proceeding contemplated by no one here.

As for bathing, we are carried down to the beach, which is extremely deep and sandy, in an
omnibus, by batches of a dozen at a time. There are two little stationary bathing-huts for
the use of the whole population; and you dress, undress, dry yourself, and do all you have
to do, in the closest proximity to persons you never saw in your life before.... This admitting
absolute strangers to the intimacy of one's most private toilet operations is quite intolerable,
and nothing but the benefit which I believe the children, as well as myself, derive from the
bathing would induce me to endure it.

From this place we go up to Massachusetts--a delightful expedition to me--to our friends the
Sedgwicks, who are very dear to me, and almost the only people among whom I have found mental
companionship since I have been in this country.

I have not had one line from my sister since her return from Germany, whence she wrote me one
letter. I feel anxious about her plans--yet not very--I do not think her going into public
life adds much to the anxiety I feel about her.... God bless you, dear. What would I give to
be once more within reach of you, and to have one more of our old talks!

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                ROCKAWAY, LONG ISLAND, August 23d, 1838.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

... I forget whether you visited any of the watering-places of this New World; but if you did
not, your estate was the more gracious. This is the second that I have visited, and I dislike
it rather more than I did the first, inasmuch as the publicity here extends not only to one's
meals, but to those ceremonies of one's toilet which in all civilized parts of the world human
beings perform in the strictest seclusion.

The beach is magnificent--ten good miles of hard, sparkling sand, and the broad, open Atlantic
rolling its long waves and breaking in one white thunderous cloud along the level expanse.
The bathing would be delightful but for the discomfort and positive indecency of the non-accommodation.

There are two small stationary dressing-huts on the beach, and here one is compelled to disrobe
and attire one's self in the closest proximity to any other women who may wish to come out
of the water or go into it at the same time that one does one's self. Moreover, the beach at
bathing time is daily thronged with spectators, before whose admiring gaze one has to emerge
all dripping, like Venus, from the waves, and nearly as naked; for one's bathing-dress clings
to one's figure, and makes a perfect wet drapery study of one's various members, and so one
has to wade slowly and in much confusion of face, thus impeded, under the public gaze, through
heavy sand, about half a quarter of a mile, to the above convenient dressing-rooms, where,
if one find only three or four persons, stripped or stripping, nude or semi-nude, one may consider
one's self fortunate....

I have wished, as heartily as I might for any such thing, that I could have seen the glorification
of our little Guelph Lady, the Queen, particularly as the coronation of another English sovereign
is scarcely likely to occur during my life; but this unaccomplished desire of mine must go
and keep company with many others, which often tend to the other side of the Atlantic. Thank
you for your account of my sister.... Hereafter, the want of female sympathy and companionship
may prove irksome to her, but at present she will scarcely miss it; she and my father are exceedingly
good friends, and pleasant companions and fellow-travelers, and are likely to remain so, unless
she should fall in love with, and insist upon marrying, a "fiddler."

Instead of being at Lenox, where I had hoped to be at this season, we are sweltering here in
New York, for whatever good we may obtain from doctors, leeches, and medicine. I mean to send
S---- up into Berkshire to-morrow; she is well at present, but I fear may not continue so if
confined to the city during this dreadfully hot weather.... For myself, I am keeping myself
well as hard as I can by taking ice-cold baths, and trudging round the Battery every evening,
to the edification of the exceedingly disreputable company who (beside myself) are the only
haunters of that one lovely lung of New York.... It is not thought expedient that I should
be stared at alone on horseback; being stared at alone on foot, apparently, is not equally
pernicious; and so I lose my most necessary exercise; but I may comfort myself with the reflection
that should I ever become a sickly, feeble, physically good-for-nothing, broken-down woman,
I shall certainly not be singular in this free and enlightened republic, where (even more than
anywhere else in the world) singularity appears to be dreaded and condemned above any or all
other sins, crimes, and vices....

Pray be kind enough to continue writing to me. Every letter from the other side is to me what
the drop of water would have been to the rich man in Hades, whom I dare say you remember. What
do you think I am reading? "The Triumphs of God's revenge against the crying and execrable
sinne of wilful and premeditated murther"--that's something new, is it not?--published in 1635.

                              So believe me ever very truly yours,

                                                                F. A. B.

                                    NEW YORK, Friday, August 24th, 1838.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I wrote to you (I believe) a short time ago, ... but I have since then received a letter from
you, and will thank you at once for it, and especially for the details concerning my sister....
I rejoice in the change which must have taken place in her physical condition, which both you
and dear Emily describe; indeed, the improvement had begun before I left England.... I believe
I appreciate perfectly all the feelings which are prompting her to the choice of the stage
for her profession; but I also think that she is unaware (which I am not) of the necessity
for excitement, which her mode of life and the influences that have surrounded her from her
childhood have created and fostered in her, and for which she is no more answerable than for
the color of her hair. I do not even much regret her election, little as I admire the vocation
of a public performer. To struggle is allotted to all, let them walk in what paths they will;
and her peculiar gifts naturally incline her to the career she is choosing, though I think
also that she has much higher intellectual capabilities than those which the vocation of a
public singer will ever call into play.... We are always so greatly in the dark in our judgments
of others, and so utterly incapable of rightly estimating the motives of their actions and
springs of their conduct, that I think in the way of blame or praise, of vehement regret or
excessive satisfaction, we need not do much until we know more. I pray God that she may endeavor
to be true to herself, and to fulfill her own perception of what is right. Whether she does
so or not, neither I, nor any one else, shall know; nor, indeed, is any one really concerned
in the matter but herself. She possesses some of the intellectual qualities from which the
most exquisite pleasures are derived.... But she will not be happy in this world; but, as nobody
else is, she will not be singular in that respect: and in the exercise of her uncommon gifts
she may find a profound pleasure, and an enjoyment of the highest kind apart from happiness
and its far deeper and higher springs.

Her voice haunts me like something precious that I have lost and go vainly seeking for; other
people play and sing her songs, and then, though I seem to listen to them, I hear her again,
and seem to see again that wonderful human soul which beamed from every part of her fine face
as she uttered those powerful sweet spells of love, and pity, and terror. To me, her success
seems almost a matter of certainty; for those who can make such appeals to the sympathy of
their fellow-beings are pretty sure not to fail. Pasta is gone; Malibran is abroad; and Schroeder-Devrient
is the only great dramatic singer left, and she remains but as the remains of what she was;
and I see no reason why Adelaide should not be as eminent as the first, who certainly was a
glorious artist, though her acting surpassed her singing, and her voice was not an exceptionally
magnificent one....

This letter has suffered an interruption of several days, dear Harriet, ... and I and my baby
have been sent after S----; and here I am on the top of a hill in the village of Lenox, in
what its inhabitants tautologically call "Berkshire county," Massachusetts, with a view before
my window which would not disgrace the Jura itself.

Immediately sloping before me, the green hillside, on the summit of which stands the house
I am inhabiting, sinks softly down to a small valley, filled with thick, rich wood, in the
centre of which a little jewel-like lake lies gleaming. Beyond this valley the hills rise one
above another to the horizon, where they scoop the sky with a broken, irregular outline that
the eye dwells on with ever new delight as its colors glow and vary with the ascending or descending
sunlight, and all the shadowy procession of the clouds. In one direction this undulating line
of distance is overtopped by a considerable mountain with a fine jagged crest, and ever since
early morning, troops of clouds and wandering showers of rain and the all-prevailing sunbeams
have chased each other over the wooded slopes, and down into the dark hollow where the lake
lies sleeping, making a pageant far finer than the one Prospero raised for Ferdinand and Miranda
on his desert island....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                      LENOX, Monday, September 3d, 1838.

It is not very long since I wrote to you, my dear Mrs. Jameson, and I have certainly nothing
of very special interest to communicate to warrant my doing so now; but I am in your debt by
letters, besides many other things; and having leisure to back my inclination just now, I will
indite.

I am sitting "on top," as the Americans say, of the hill of Lenox, looking out at that prospect
upon which your eyes have often rested, and making common cause in the eating and living way
with Mary and Fanny A----, who have taken up their abode here for a week [Miss Mary and Fanny
Appleton; the one afterwards married Robert, son of Sir James Mackintosh; the other, alas!
the poet Longfellow]. Never was village hostelry so graced before, surely! There is a pretty
daughter of Mr. Dewey's staying in the house besides, with a pretty cousin; and it strikes
me that the old Red Inn is having a sort of blossoming season, with all these sweet, handsome
young faces shining about it in every direction.

You know the sort of life that is lived here: the absence of all form, ceremony, or inconvenient
conventionality whatever. We laugh, and we talk, sing, play, dance, and discuss; we ride, drive,
walk, run, scramble, and saunter, and amuse ourselves extremely with little materials (as the
generality of people would suppose) wherewith to do so....

The Sedgwicks are under a cloud of sorrow just now.... They are none of them, however, people
who suffer themselves to be absorbed by their own personal interests, whether sad or gay; and
as in their most prosperous and happy hours they would have sympathy to spare to the sufferings
of others, so the sickness and sorrow of these members of their family circle, and the consequent
depression they all labor under (for where was a family more united?), does not prevent our
enjoying every day delightful seasons of intercourse with them....

Pray write me whatever you hear about my people. Lady Dacre wrote me a kind and very interesting
account of my sister the other day. Poor thing! her ordeal is now drawing near, if anybody's
ordeal can properly be said to be "drawing near," except before they are born; for surely from
beginning to end life is nothing but one long ordeal.

I am glad you like Lady M----; she is a person whom I regard very dearly. It is many years
since I first became acquainted with her, and the renewal of our early intimacy took place
under circumstances of peculiar interest. Is not her face handsome; and her manner and deportment
fine?... I must stop. I see my young ladies coming home from their afternoon drive, and am
going with them to spend the hours between this and bed-time at Mrs. Charles Sedgwick's. Pray
continue to write to me, and

                              Believe me ever yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                              Begun at LENOX, ended at PHILADELPHIA,
                                             Sunday, October 29th, 1838.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

... Since the receipt of your last letter, one from Emily has reached me, bringing me the intelligence
of my mother's death!... There is something so deplorable in perceiving (what one only fully
perceives as they are ceasing forever) all the blessed uses of which these mysterious human
relations are capable, all their preciousness, all their sweetness, all their holiness, alas!
alas!...

Cecilia and Mr. Combe arrived in this country by the Great Western about a fortnight ago. On
their road from New York to Boston they passed a night within six miles of Lenox, and neither
came to see nor sent me word that they were so near, which was being rather more phrenological
and philosophically phlegmatical than I should have expected of them. For my heart had warmed
to Cecilia in this pilgrimage of hers to a foreign land, where I alone was of kin to her; and
I felt as if I both knew and loved her more than I really do....

I understand Mr. Combe has parceled out both his whereabouts and whatabouts, to the very inch
and minute, for every day in the next two years to come, which he intends to devote to the
phrenological regeneration of this country. I am afraid that he may meet with some disappointment
in the result of his labors: not indeed in Boston, where considerable curiosity exists upon
that subject, and a general proneness to intellectual exercises of every description....

Throughout New England, his book on the "Constitution of Man," and his brother's, on the treatment
of that constitution, are read and valued, and their name is held in esteem by the whole reading
community of the North. But I doubt his doing more than exciting a mere temporary curiosity
in New York and Philadelphia; and further south I should think he would not be listened to
at all, unless he comes prepared to demonstrate phrenologically that the colored population
of the Southern States is (or are), by the conformation of their skulls, the legitimate slaves
of the whites.

Can anything be stranger than to think of Cecilia trotting over the length and breadth of North
America at the heels of a lecturing philosopher? When I think of her in her mother's drawing-room
in London, in the midst of surroundings and society so different, I find no end to my wonderment.
She must have extraordinary adaptability to circumstances in her composition.

I have just finished the play of which you read the beginning in England--my "English Tragedy"--and
am, as usual, in high delight just now with my own performance. I wish that agreeable sentiment
could last; it is so pleasant while it does! I think I will send it over to Macready, to try
if he will bring it out at Covent Garden. I think it might succeed, perhaps; unless, indeed,
the story is too objectionable for anything--but reality.

Perhaps I have had my share of health. I am sure I have had enough to be most grateful for,
if I should lie on a sick-bed for the rest of my days....

God bless you, dear.

                              I am ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                             PHILADELPHIA, Tuesday, November 13th, 1838.

... The sad news of my poor mother's death, my dear Mrs. Jameson, reached me while I was staying
up at Lenox, among those whom my good fortune has raised up in this strange country to fill
for me the place of the kindred and friends from whom I am so widely sundered....

That the winter in Georgia, whither we are going immediately, may be beneficial to the invalid
member of our party, is the only pleasant anticipation with which I set my face towards a part
of the country where the whole manner of existence is repugnant to my feelings, and where the
common comforts of life are so little known, that we are obliged to ship a freight of necessary
articles of food, for our use while we are on the plantation.

Wheaten bread is unknown, meal made of the Indian corn being alone used there: and though the
provision Nature has furnished, in the shape of game, abounds, the only meat, properly so called,
which can be procured there, is shipped in barrels (salted, of course) from the North.

Society, or the shadow of it, is not to be dreamt of; and our residence, as far as I can learn,
is to be a half-furnished house in the midst of rice-swamps, where our habitual company will
be our slaves, and our occasional visitors an alligator or two from the Altamaha.

Catharine Sedgwick is spending the winter in Lenox. She and Mr. and Mrs. R---- and Kate are
going to Europe in the spring; and if I should return alive from Slavery, perhaps I may go
with them. Pray do not fail to let me know everything you may hear or see of my sister....
I was at Lenox when your parcel for Catharine Sedgwick arrived. We were all enchanted with
the engraving from the German picture of the "Sick Counsellor."

                                                                F. A. B.

  DEAREST HARRIET,

On Friday morning we started from Philadelphia, by railroad, for Baltimore. It is a curious
fact enough, that half the routes that are traveled in America are either temporary or unfinished,--one
reason, among several, for the multitudinous accidents which befall wayfarers. At the very
outset of our journey, and within scarce a mile of Philadelphia, we crossed the Schuylkill,
over a bridge, one of the principal piers of which is yet incomplete, and the whole building
(a covered wooden one, of handsome dimensions) filled with workmen, yet occupied about its
construction. But the Americans are impetuous in the way of improvement, and have all the impatience
of children about the trying of a new thing, often greatly retarding their own progress by
hurrying unduly the completion of their works, or using them in a perilous state of incompleteness.
Our road lay for a considerable length of time through flat, low meadows that skirt the Delaware,
which at this season of the year, covered with snow and bare of vegetation, presented a most
dreary aspect. We passed through Wilmington (Delaware), and crossed a small stream called the
Brandywine, the scenery along the banks of which is very beautiful. For its historical associations
I refer you to the life of Washington. I cannot say that the aspect of the town of Wilmington,
as viewed from the railroad cars, presented any very exquisite points of beauty; I shall therefore
indulge in a few observations upon these same railroad cars just here.

And first, I cannot but think that it would be infinitely more consonant with comfort, convenience,
and common sense, if persons obliged to travel during the intense cold of an American winter
(in the Northern States), were to clothe themselves according to the exigency of the weather,
and so do away with the present deleterious custom of warming close and crowded carriages with
sheet-iron stoves, heated with anthracite coal. No words can describe the foulness of the atmosphere,
thus robbed of all vitality by the vicious properties of that dreadful combustible, and tainted
besides with the poison emitted at every respiration from so many pairs of human lungs. These
are facts which the merest tyro in physiological science knows, and the utter disregard of
which on the part of the Americans renders them the amazement of every traveler from countries
where the preservation of health is considered worth the care of a rational creature. I once
traveled to Harrisburg in a railroad car, fitted up to carry sixty-four persons, in the midst
of which glowed a large stove. The trip was certainly a delectable one. Nor is there any remedy
for this: an attempt to open a window is met by a universal scowl and shudder; and indeed it
is but incurring the risk of one's death of cold, instead of one's death of heat. The windows,
in fact, form the walls on each side of the carriage, which looks like a long green-house upon
wheels; the seats, which each contain two persons (a pretty tight fit too), are placed down
the whole length of the vehicle, one behind the other, leaving a species of aisle in the middle
for the uneasy (a large portion of the traveling community here) to fidget up and down, for
the tobacco-chewers to spit in, and for a whole tribe of little itinerant fruit and cake-sellers
to rush through, distributing their wares at every place where the train stops. Of course nobody
can well sit immediately in the opening of a window when the thermometer is twelve degrees
below zero; yet this, or suffocation in foul air, is the only alternative. I generally prefer
being half frozen to death to the latter mode of martyrdom.

Attached to the Baltimore cars was a separate apartment for women. It was of comfortable dimensions,
and without a stove; and here I betook myself with my children, escaping from the pestilential
atmosphere of the other compartment, and performing our journey with ease enough. My only trial
here was one which I have to encounter in whatever direction I travel in America, and which,
though apparently a trivial matter in itself, has caused me infinite trouble, and no little
compassion for the rising generation of the United States--I allude to the ignorant and fatal
practice of the women of stuffing their children from morning till night with every species
of trash which comes to hand.... I once took the liberty of asking a young woman who was traveling
in the same carriage with me, and stuffing her child incessantly with heavy cakes, which she
also attempted to make mine eat, her reason for this system,--she replied, it was to "keep
her baby good." I looked at her own sallow cheeks and rickety teeth, and could not forbear
suggesting to her how much she was injuring her poor child's health. She stared in astonishment,
and pursued the process, no doubt wondering what I meant, and how I could be so cruel as not
to allow pound-cake to my child. Indeed, as may easily be supposed, it becomes a matter of
no little difficulty to enforce my own rigid discipline in the midst of the various offers
of dainties which tempt my poor little girl at every turn; but I persevere, nevertheless, and
am not seldom rewarded by the admiration which her appearance of health and strength excites
wherever she goes.

I remember being excessively amused at the woeful condition of an unfortunate gentleman on
board one of the Philadelphia boats, whose sickly-looking wife, exhausted with her vain attempts
to quiet three sickly-looking children, had in despair given them into his charge. The miserable
man furnished each of them with a lump of cake, and during the temporary lull caused by this
diversion, took occasion to make acquaintance with my child, to whom he tendered the same indulgence.
Upon my refusing it for her, he exclaimed in astonishment--

"Why, madam, don't you allow the little girl cake?"

"No, sir."

"What does she eat, pray?" (as if people lived upon cake generally).

"Bread and milk, and bread and meat."

"What! no butter? no tea or coffee?"

"None whatever."

"Ah!" sighed the poor man, as the chorus of woe arose again from his own progeny, the cake
having disappeared down their throats, "I suppose that's why she looks so healthy."

I supposed so, too, but did not inquire whether the gentleman extended his inference.

We pursued our way from Wilmington to Havre de Grace on the railroad, and crossed one or two
inlets from the Chesapeake, of considerable width, upon bridges of a most perilous construction,
and which, indeed, have given way once or twice in various parts already. They consist merely
of wooden piles driven into the river, across which the iron rails are laid, only just raising
the train above the level of the water. To traverse with an immense train, at full steam-speed,
one of these creeks, nearly a mile in width, is far from agreeable, let one be never so little
nervous; and it was with infinite cordiality each time that I greeted the first bush that hung
over the water, indicating our approach to terra firma. At Havre de Grace we crossed the Susquehanna
in a steamboat, which cut its way through the ice an inch in thickness with marvelous ease
and swiftness, and landed us on the other side, where we again entered the railroad carriages
to pursue our road.

We arrived in Baltimore at about half-past two, and went immediately on board the Alabama steamboat,
which was to convey us to Portsmouth, and which started about three-quarters of an hour after,
carrying us down the Chesapeake Bay to the shores of Virginia. We obtained an unutterably hard
beefsteak for our dinner, having had nothing on the road, but found ourselves but little fortified
by the sight of what we really could not swallow. Between six and seven, however, occurred
that most comprehensive repast, a steamboat tea; after which, and the ceremony of choosing
our berths, I betook myself to the reading of "Oliver Twist" till half-past eleven at night.
I wonder if Mr. Dickens had any sensible perception of the benedictions which flew to him from
the bosom of the broad Chesapeake as I closed his book; I am afraid not. Helen says, "'tis
pity well-wishing has no body," so it is that gratitude, admiration, and moral approbation
have none, for the sake of such a writer, and yet he might, peradventure, be smothered. I had
a comical squabble with the stewardess,--a dirty, funny, good-humored old negress, who was
driven almost wild by my exorbitant demands for towels, of which she assured me one was a quite
ample allowance. Mine, alas! were deep down in my trunk, beyond all possibility of getting
at, even if I could have got at the trunk, which I very much doubt. Now I counted no less than
seven handsome looking-glasses on board of this steamboat, where one towel was considered all
that was requisite, not even for each individual, but for each washing-room. This addiction
to ornament, and neglect of comfort and convenience, is a strong characteristic of Americans
at present, luxuries often abounding where decencies cannot be procured. 'Tis the necessary
result of a young civilization, and reminds me a little of Rosamond's purple jar, or Sir Joshua
Reynolds's charming picture of the naked child, with a court cap full of flowers and feathers
stuck on her head.

After a very wretched night on board the boat, we landed about nine o'clock, at Portsmouth,
Virginia. I must not omit to mention that my morning ablutions were as much excepted to by
the old negress as those of the preceding evening. Indeed, she seemed perfectly indignant at
the forbearance of one lady, who withdrew from the dressing-room on finding me there, exclaiming--

"Go in, go in, I tell you; they always washes two at a time in them rooms."

At Portsmouth there is a fine dry dock and navy yard, as I was informed.... The appearance
of the place in general was mean and unpicturesque. Here I encountered the first slaves I ever
saw, and the sight of them in no way tended to alter my previous opinions upon this subject.
They were poorly clothed; looked horribly dirty, and had a lazy recklessness in their air and
manner as they sauntered along, which naturally belongs to creatures without one of the responsibilities
which are the honorable burthen of rational humanity.

Our next stopping-place was a small town called Suffolk. Here the negroes gathered in admiring
crowds round the railroad carriages. They seem full of idle merriment and unmeaning glee, and
regard with an intensity of curiosity perfectly ludicrous the appearance and proceedings of
such whites as they easily perceive are strangers in their part of the country. As my child
leaned from the carriage-window, her brilliant complexion drew forth sundry exclamations of
delight from the sooty circle below, and one woman, grinning from ear to ear, and displaying
a most dazzling set of grinders, drew forward a little mahogany-colored imp, her grandchild,
and offered her to the little "Missis" for her waiting-maid. I told her the little missis waited
upon herself; whereupon she set up a most incredulous giggle, and reiterated her proffers,
in the midst of which our kettle started off, and we left her.

To describe to you the tract of country through which we now passed would be impossible, so
forlorn a region it never entered my imagination to conceive. Dismal by nature, indeed, as
well as by name, is that vast swamp, of which we now skirted the northern edge, looking into
its endless pools of black water, where the melancholy cypress and juniper-trees alone overshadowed
the thick-looking surface, their roots all globular, like huge bulbous plants, and their dark
branches woven together with a hideous matting of giant creepers, which clung round their stems,
and hung about the dreary forest like a drapery of withered snakes.

It looked like some blasted region lying under an enchanter's ban, such as one reads of in
old stories. Nothing lived or moved throughout the loathsome solitude, and the sunbeams themselves
seemed to sicken and grow pale as they glided like ghosts through these watery woods. Into
this wilderness it seems impossible that the hand of human industry, or the foot of human wayfaring
should ever penetrate; no wholesome growth can take root in its slimy depths; a wild jungle
chokes up parts of it with a reedy, rattling covert for venomous reptiles; the rest is a succession
of black ponds, sweltering under black cypress boughs,--a place forbid.

The wood which is cut upon its borders is obliged to be felled in winter, for the summer, which
clothes other regions with flowers, makes this pestilential waste alive with rattlesnakes,
so that none dare venture within its bounds, and I should even apprehend that, traveling as
rapidly as one does on the railroad, and only skirting this district of dismay, one might not
escape the fetid breathings it sends forth when the warm season has quickened its stagnant
waters and poisonous vegetation.

After passing this place, we entered upon a country little more cheerful in its aspect, though
the absence of the dark swamp water was something in its favor,--apparently endless tracts
of pine-forest, well called by the natives, Pine-Barrens. The soil is pure sand; and, though
the holly, with its coral berries, and the wild myrtle grow in considerable abundance, mingled
with the pines, these preponderate, and the whole land presents one wearisome extent of arid
soil and gloomy vegetation. Not a single decent dwelling did we pass: here and there, at rare
intervals, a few miserable negro huts squatting round a mean framed building, with brick chimneys
built on the outside, the residence of the owner of the land and his squalid serfs, were the
only evidences of human existence in this forlorn country.

Towards four o'clock, as we approached the Roanoke, the appearance of the land improved; there
was a good deal of fine soil well farmed, and the river, where we crossed it, although in all
the naked unadornment of wintry banks, looked very picturesque and refreshing as it gushed
along, broken by rocks and small islands into rapid reaches and currents. Immediately after
crossing it, we stopped at a small knot of houses, which, although christened Weldon, and therefore
pretending to be a place, was rather the place where a place was intended to be. Two or three
rough-pine warerooms, or station-houses, belonging to the railroad; a few miserable dwellings,
which might be either not half built up, or not quite fallen down, on the banks of a large
mill-pond; one exceedingly dirty-looking old wooden house, whither we directed our steps as
to the inn; but we did not take our ease in it, though we tried as much as we could.

However, one thing I will say for North Carolina--it has the best material for fire, and the
noblest liberality in the use of it, of any place in the world. Such a spectacle as one of
those rousing pine-wood chimneyfuls is not to be described, nor the revivification it engenders
even in the absence of every other comfort or necessary of life. They are enough to make one
turn Gheber,--such noble piles of fire and flame, such hearty, brilliant life--full altars
of light and warmth. These greeted us upon our entrance into this miserable inn, and seemed
to rest and feed, as well as warm us. We (the women) were shown up a filthy flight of wooden
stairs into a dilapidated room, the plastered walls of which were all smeared and discolored,
the windows begrimed and darkened with dirt. Upon the three beds, which nearly filled up this
wretched apartment, lay tattered articles of male and female apparel; and here we drew round
the pine-wood fire, which blazed up the chimney, sending a ruddy glow of comfort and cheerfulness
even through this disgusting den. We were to wait here for the arrival of the cars from a branch
railroad, to continue our route; and in the mean time a so-called dinner was provided for us,
to which we were presently summoned. Of the horrible dirt of everything at this meal, from
the eatables themselves to the table-cloth, and the clothes of the negroes who waited upon
us, it would be impossible to give any idea. The poultry, which formed here, as it does all
through the South, the chief animal part of the repast (except the consumers, always understood),
were so tough that I should think they must have been alive when we came into the house, and
certainly died very hard. They were swimming in black grease, and stuffed with some black ingredient
that was doubt and dismay to us uninitiated; but, however, knowledge would probably have been
more terrible in this case than ignorance. We had no bread but lumps of hot dough, which reminded
me forcibly of certain juvenile creations of my brothers, yclept dumps. I should think they
would have eaten very much alike.

I was amused to observe that while our tea was poured out, and handed to us by a black girl
of most disgustingly dirty appearance, no sooner did the engine drivers, and persons connected
with the railroads and coaches, sit down to their meal, than the landlady herself, a portly
dame, with a most dignified carriage, took the head of the table, and did the honors with all
the grace of a most accomplished hostess. Our male fellow-travelers no sooner had dispatched
their dinner than they withdrew in a body to the other end of the apartment, and large rattling
folding-doors being drawn across the room, the separation of men and women, so rigidly observed
by all traveling Americans, took place. This is a most peculiar and amusing custom, though
sometimes I have been not a little inclined to quarrel with it, inasmuch as it effectually
deprives one of the assistance of the men under whose protection one is traveling, as well
as all the advantages or pleasure of their society. Twice during this southward trip of ours
my companion has been most peremptorily ordered to withdraw from the apartment where he was
conversing with me, by colored cabin-girls, who told him it was against the rules for any gentleman
to come into the ladies' room. This making rules by which ladies and gentlemen are to observe
the principles of decorum and good-breeding may be very necessary, for aught I can tell, but
it seems rather sarcastical, I think, to have them enforced by servant-girls.

The gentlemen, on their side, are intrenched in a similar manner; and if a woman has occasion
to speak to the person with whom she is traveling, her entrance into the male den, if she has
the courage to venture there, is the signal for a universal stare and whisper. But, for the
most part, the convenient result of this arrangement is, that such men as have female companions
with them pass their time in prowling about the precincts of the "ladies' apartment"; while
their respective ladies pop their heads first out of one door and then out of another, watching
in decorous discomfort the time when "their man" shall come to pass. Our sole resource on the
present occasion was to retire again to the horrible hole above stairs, where we had at first
taken refuge and here we remained until summoned down again by the arrival of the expected
train. My poor little children, overcome with fatigue and sleep, were carried, and we walked
from the hotel at Weldon to the railroad, and by good fortune obtained a compartment to ourselves.

It was now between eight and nine o'clock, and perfectly dark. The carriages were furnished
with lamps, however, and, by the rapid glance they cast upon the objects which we passed, I
endeavored in vain to guess at the nature of the country through which we were traveling; but,
except the tall shafts of the everlasting pine trees, which still pursued us, I could descry
nothing, and resigned myself to the amusing contemplation of the attitudes of my companions,
who were all fast asleep. Between twelve and one o'clock the engine stopped, and it was announced
to us that we had traveled as far upon the railroad as it was yet completed, and that we must
transfer ourselves to stage-coaches; so in the dead middle of the night we crept out of the
train, and taking our children in our arms, walked a few yards into an open space in the woods,
where three four-horse coaches stood waiting to receive us. A crowd of men, principally negroes,
were collected here round a huge fire of pine-wood, which, together with the pine-torches,
whose resinous glare streamed brilliantly into the darkness of the woods, created a ruddy blaze,
by the light of which we reached our vehicles in safety, and, while they were adjusting the
luggage, had leisure to admire our jetty torch-bearers, who lounged round in a state of tattered
undress, highly picturesque,--the staring whites of their eyes, and glittering ranges of dazzling
teeth exhibited to perfection by the expression of grinning amusement in their countenances,
shining in the darkness almost as brightly as the lights which they reflected. We had especially
requested that we might have a coach to ourselves, and had been assured that there would be
one for the use of our party. It appeared, however, that the outside seat of this had been
appropriated by some one, for our coachman, who was traveling with us, was obliged to take
a seat inside with us; and though it then contained five grown persons and two children, it
seems that the coach was by no means considered full. The horrors of that night's journey I
shall not easily forget. The road lay almost the whole way through swamps, and was frequently
itself under water. It was made of logs of wood (a corduroy road), and so dreadfully rough
and unequal, that the drawing a coach over it at all seemed perfectly miraculous. I expected
every moment that we must be overturned into the marsh, through which we splashed, with hardly
any intermission, the whole night long. Their drivers in this part of the country deserve infinite
praise both for skill and care; but the road-makers, I think, are beyond all praise for their
noble confidence in what skill and care can accomplish.

You will readily imagine how thankfully I saw the first whitening of daylight in the sky. I
do not know that any morning was ever more welcome to me than that which found us still surrounded
by the pine-swamps of North Carolina, which, brightened by the morning sun, and breathed through
by the morning air, lost something of their dreary desolateness to my senses....

Not long after daybreak we arrived at a place called Stantonsborough. I do not know whether
that is the name of the district, or what; for I saw no village,--nothing but the one lonely
house in the wood at which we stopped. I should have mentioned that the unfortunate individual
who took our coachman's place outside, towards daybreak became so perished with cold, that
an exchange was effected between them, and thus the privacy (if such it could be called) of
our carriage was invaded, in spite of the promise which we had received to the contrary. As
I am nursing my own baby, and have been compelled to travel all day and all night, of course
this was a circumstance of no small annoyance; but as our company was again increased some
time after, and subsequently I had to travel in a railroad carriage that held upwards of twenty
people, I had to resign myself to this, among the other miseries of this most miserable journey.

As we alighted from our coach, we encountered the comical spectacle of the two coach-loads
of gentlemen who had traveled the same route as ourselves, with wrist-bands and coat-cuffs
turned back, performing their morning ablutions all together at a long wooden dresser in the
open air, though the morning was piercing cold. Their toilet accommodations were quite of the
most primitive order imaginable, as indeed were ours. We (the women) were all shown into one
small room, the whole furniture of which consisted of a chair and wooden bench: upon the latter
stood one basin, one ewer, and a relic of soap, apparently of great antiquity. Before, however,
we could avail ourselves of these ample means of cleanliness, we were summoned down to breakfast;
but as we had traveled all night, and all the previous day, and were to travel all the ensuing
day and night, I preferred washing to eating, and determined, if I could not do both, at least
to accomplish the first. There was neither towel, nor glass for one's teeth, nor hostess or
chambermaid to appeal to. I ran through all the rooms on the floor, of which the doors were
open; but though in one I found a magnificent veneered chest of drawers, and large looking-glass,
neither of the above articles were discoverable. Again the savage passion for ornament occurred
to me as I looked at this piece of furniture, which might have adorned the most luxurious bedroom
of the wealthiest citizen in New York--here in this wilderness, in a house which seemed but
just cut out of the trees, where a tin pan was brought to me for a basin, and where the only
kitchen, of which the window of our room, to our sorrow, commanded an uninterrupted prospect,
was an open shed, not fit to stable a well-kept horse in. As I found nothing that I could take
possession of in the shape of towel or tumbler, I was obliged to wait on the stairs, and catch
one of the dirty black girls who were running to and fro serving the breakfast-room. Upon asking
one of these nymphs for a towel, she held up to me a horrible cloth, which, but for the evidence
to the contrary which its filthy surface presented, I should have supposed had been used to
clean the floors. Upon my objecting to this, she flounced away, disgusted, I presume, with
my fastidiousness, and appeared no more. As I leaned over the bannisters in a state of considerable
despondency, I espied a man who appeared to be the host himself and to him I ventured to prefer
my humble petition for a clean towel. He immediately snatched from the dresser, where the gentlemen
had been washing themselves, a wet and dirty towel, which lay by one of the basins, and offered
it to me. Upon my suggesting that that was not a clean towel, he looked at me from head to
foot with ineffable amazement, but at length desired one of the negroes to fetch me the unusual
luxury.

Of the breakfast at this place no words can give any idea. There were plates full of unutterable-looking
things, which made one feel as if one should never swallow food again. There were some eggs,
all begrimed with smoke, and powdered with cinders; some unbaked dough, cut into little lumps,
by way of bread; and a white, hard substance, calling itself butter, which had an infinitely
nearer resemblance to tallow. The mixture presented to us by way of tea was absolutely undrinkable;
and when I begged for a glass of milk, they brought a tumbler covered with dust and dirt, full
of such sour stuff that I was obliged to put it aside, after endeavoring to taste it. Thus
refreshed, we set forth again through the eternal pine-lands, on and on, the tall stems rising
all round us for miles and miles in dreary monotony, like a spell-land of dismal enchantment,
to which there seemed no end....

North Carolina is, I believe, the poorest State in the Union: the part of it through which
we traveled should seem to indicate as much. From Suffolk to Wilmington we did not pass a single
town,--scarcely anything deserving the name of a village. The few detached houses on the road
were mean and beggarly in their appearance; and the people whom we saw when the coach stopped
had a squalid, and at the same time fierce air, which at once bore witness to the unfortunate
influences of their existence. Not the least of these is the circumstance that their subsistence
is derived in great measure from the spontaneous produce of the land, which, yielding without
cultivation the timber and turpentine, by the sale of which they are mainly supported, denies
to them all the blessings which flow from labor. How is it that the fable ever originated of
God's having cursed man with the doom of toil? How is it that men have ever been blind to the
exceeding profitableness of labor, even for its own sake, whose moral harvest alone--industry,
economy, patience, foresight, knowledge--is in itself an exceeding great reward, to which add
the physical blessings which wait on this universal law--health, strength, activity, cheerfulness,
the content that springs from honest exertion, and the lawful pride that grows from conquered
difficulty? How invariably have the inhabitants of southern countries, whose teeming soil produced,
unurged, the means of life, been cursed with indolence, with recklessness, with the sleepy
slothfulness which, while basking in the sunshine, and gathering the earth's spontaneous fruits,
satisfied itself with this animal existence, forgetting all the nobler purposes of life in
the mere ease of living? Therefore, too, southern lands have always been the prey of northern
conquerors; and the bleak regions of Upper Europe and Asia have poured forth from time to time
the hungry hordes, whose iron sinews swept the nerveless children of the gardens of the earth
from the face of their idle paradises: and, but for this stream of keener life and nobler energy,
it would be difficult to imagine a more complete race of lotus-eaters than would now cumber
the fairest regions of the earth.

Doubtless it is to counteract the enervating effects of soil and climate that this northern
tide of vigorous life flows forever towards the countries of the sun, that the races may be
renewed, the earth reclaimed, and the world, and all its various tribes, rescued from disease
and decay by the influence of the stern northern vitality, searching and strong, and purifying
as the keen piercing winds that blow from that quarter of the heavens. To descend to rather
a familiar illustration of this, it is really quite curious to observe how many New England
adventurers come to the Southern States, and bringing their enterprising, active character
to bear upon the means of wealth, which in the North they lack, but which abound in these more
favored regions, return home after a short season of exertion, laden with the spoils of the
indolent southerners. The southern people are growing poorer every day, in the midst of their
slaves and their vast landed estates: whilst every day sees the arrival amongst them of some
penniless Yankee, who presently turns the very ground he stands upon into wealth, and departs
a lord of riches at the end of a few years, leaving the sleepy population, among whom he has
amassed them, floated still farther down the tide of dwindling prosperity....

At a small place called Waynesborough, ... I asked for a glass of milk, and they told me they
had no such thing. Upon entering our new vehicle, we found another stranger added to our party,
to my unspeakable annoyance. Complaint or remonstrance, I knew, however, would be of no avail,
and I therefore submitted in silence to what I could not help. At a short distance beyond Waynesborough
we were desired to alight, in order to walk over a bridge, which was in so rotten a condition
as to render it very probable that it would give way under our weight. This same bridge, whose
appearance was indeed most perilous, is built at a considerable height over a broad and rapid
stream, called the Neuse, the color of whose water we had an excellent opportunity of admiring
through the numerous holes in the plankage, over which we walked as lightly and rapidly as
we could, stopping afterwards to see our coach come at a foot's pace after us. This may be
called safe and pleasant traveling. The ten miles which followed were over heavy sandy roads,
and it was near sunset when we reached the place where we were to take the railroad. The train,
however, had not arrived, and we sat still in the coaches, there being neither town, village,
nor even a road-side inn at hand, where we might take shelter from the bitter blast which swept
through the pine-woods by which we were surrounded; and so we waited patiently, the day gradually
drooping, the evening air becoming colder, and the howling wilderness around us more dismal
every moment.

In the mean time the coaches were surrounded by a troop of gazing boors, who had come from
far and near to see the hot-water carriages come up for only the third time into the midst
of their savage solitude. A more forlorn, fierce, poor, and wild-looking set of people, short
of absolute savages, I never saw. They wandered round and round us, with a stupid kind of dismayed
wonder. The men clothed in the coarsest manner, and the women also, of whom there were not
a few, with the grotesque addition of pink and blue silk bonnets, with artificial flowers,
and imitation-blonde veils. Here the gentlemen of our party informed us that they observed,
for the first time, a custom prevalent in North Carolina, of which I had myself frequently
heard before--the women chewing tobacco, and that, too, in a most disgusting and disagreeable
way, if one way can be more disgusting than another. They carry habitually a small stick, like
the implement for cleaning the teeth, usually known in England by the name of a root,--this
they thrust away in their glove, or their garter-string, and, whenever occasion offers, plunge
it into a snuff-box, and begin chewing it. The practice is so common that the proffer of the
snuff-box, and its passing from hand to hand, is the usual civility of a morning visit among
the country-people; and I was not a little amused at hearing the gentlemen who were with us
describe the process as they witnessed it in their visit to a miserable farm-house across the
fields, whither they went to try to obtain something to eat.

It was now becoming dark, and the male members of our caravan held council round a pine fire
as to what course had better be adopted for sheltering themselves and us during the night,
which we seemed destined to pass in the woods. After some debate, it was recollected that one
Colonel ----, a man of some standing in that neighborhood, had a farm about a mile distant,
immediately upon the line of the railroad; and thither it was determined we should all repair,
and ask quarters for the night. Fortunately, an empty truck stood at hand upon the iron road,
and to this the luggage and the women and children of the party, were transferred. A number
of negroes, who were loitering about, were pressed into the service, and pushed it along; and
the gentlemen, walking, brought up the rear. I don't know that I ever in my life felt so completely
desolate as during that half-hour's slow progress. We sat cowering among the trunks, my faithful
Margery and I, each with a baby in our arms, sheltering ourselves and our poor little burthens
from the bleak northern wind that whistled over us.

The last embers of daylight were dying out in dusky red streaks along the horizon, and the
dreary waste around us looked like the very shaggy edge of all creation. The men who pushed
us along encouraged each other with wild shouts and yells, and every now and then their labor
was one of no little danger, as well as difficulty,--for the road crossed one or two deep ravines
and morasses at a considerable height, and, as it was not completed, and nothing but the iron
rails were laid across piles driven into these places, it became a service of considerable
risk to run along these narrow ledges, at the same time urging our car along. No accident happened,
however, fortunately, and we presently beheld, with no small satisfaction, a cluster of houses
in the fields at some little distance from the road. To the principal one I made my way, followed
by the rest of the poor womankind, and, entering the house without further ceremony, ushered
them into a large species of wooden room, where blazed a huge pine-wood fire. By this welcome
light we descried, sitting in the corner of the vast chimney, an old, ruddy-faced man, with
silver hair, and a good-humored countenance, who, welcoming us with ready hospitality, announced
himself as Colonel ----, and invited us to draw near the fire.

The worthy colonel seemed in no way dismayed at this sudden inbreak of distressed women, which
was very soon followed by the arrival of the gentlemen, to whom he repeated the same courteous
reception he had given us, replying to their rather hesitating demands for something to eat,
by ordering to the right and left a tribe of staring negroes, who bustled about preparing supper,
under the active superintendence of the hospitable colonel. His residence (considering his
rank) was quite the most primitive imaginable,--a rough brick-and-plank chamber, of considerable
dimensions, not even whitewashed, with the great beams and rafters by which it was supported
displaying the skeleton of the building, to the complete satisfaction of any one who might
be curious in architecture. The windows could close neither at the top, bottom, sides, nor
middle, and were, besides, broken so as to admit several delightful currents of air, which
might be received as purely accidental. In one corner of this primitive apartment stood a clean-looking
bed, with coarse furniture; whilst in the opposite one, an old case-clock was ticking away
its time and its master's with cheerful monotony. The rush-bottomed chairs were of as many
different shapes and sizes as those in a modern fine lady's drawing-room, and the walls were
hung all round with a curious miscellany, consisting principally of physic vials, turkey-feather
fans, bunches of dried herbs, and the colonel's arsenal, in the shape of one or two old guns, etc.

According to the worthy man's hearty invitation, I proceeded to make myself and my companions
at home, pinning, skewering, and otherwise suspending our cloaks and shawls across the various
intentional and unintentional air-gaps, thereby increasing both the comfort and the grotesqueness
of the apartment in no small degree. The babies had bowls of milk furnished them, and the elder
portion of the caravan was regaled with a taste of the colonel's home-made wine, pending the
supper to which he continued to entreat our stay. Meantime he entered into conversation with
the gentlemen; and my veneration waxed deep, when the old man, unfolding his history, proclaimed
himself one of the heroes of the revolution,--a fellow-fighter with Washington. I, who, comforted
to a degree of high spirits by our sudden transition from the cold and darkness of the railroad
to the light and shelter of this rude mansion, had been flippantly bandying jokes, and proceeded
some way in a lively flirtation with this illustrious American, grew thrice respectful, and
hardly ventured to raise either my eyes or my voice as I inquired if he lived alone in this
remote place. Yes, alone now; his wife had been dead near upon two years.

Suddenly we were broken in upon by the arrival of the expected train. It was past eight o'clock.
If we delayed we should have to travel all night; but then, the colonel pressed us to stay
and sup (the bereaved colonel, the last touching revelation of whose lonely existence had turned
all my mirth into sympathizing sadness). The gentlemen were famished and well inclined to stay;
the ladies were famished too, for we had eaten nothing all day. The bustle of preparation,
urged by the warmhearted colonel, began afresh; the negro girls shambled in and out more vigorously
than ever, and finally we were called to eat and refresh ourselves with--dirty water--I cannot
call it tea,--old cheese, bad butter, and old dry biscuits. The gentlemen bethought them of
the good supper they might have secured a few miles further and groaned; but the hospitable
colonel merely asked them half a dollar apiece (there were about ten of them); paying which,
we departed, with our enthusiasm a little damped for the warrior of the revolution; and a tinge
of rather deeper misgiving as to some of his virtues stole over our minds, on learning that
three of the sable damsels who trudged about at our supper service were the colonel's own progeny.
I believe only three,--though the young negro girl, whose loquacity made us aware of the fact,
added, with a burst of commendable pride and gratitude, "Indeed, he is a father to us all!"
Whether she spoke figuratively, or literally, we could not determine. So much for a three hours'
shelter in North Carolina....

                                                                F. A. B.

  DEAREST HARRIET,

I had been very much struck with the appearance of the horses we passed occasionally in enclosures,
or gathered round some lonely roadside pine-wood shop, or post-office, fastened to trees in
the surrounding forest, and waiting for their riders. I had been always led to expect a great
improvement in the breed of horses as we went southward, and the appearance of those I saw
on the road was certainly in favor of the claim. They were generally small, but in good condition,
and remarkably well made. They seemed to be tolerably well cared for, too; and those which
we saw caparisoned were ornamented with gay saddle-cloths, and rather a superfluity of trappings
for civil animals.

At our dismal halt in the woods, while waiting for the railroad train, among our other spectators
was a woman on horseback. Her steed was uncommonly pretty and well-limbed; but her costume
was quite the most eccentric that can be imagined, accustomed as I am to the not over-rigid
equipments of the northern villages. But the North Carolinian damsel beat all Yankee girls,
I ever saw, hollow, in the glorious contempt she exhibited for the external fitness of things
in her exceeding short skirts and huge sun-bonnet.

After our departure from Colonel ----'s, we traveled all night on the railroad. One of my children
slept in my lap, the other on the narrow seat opposite to me, from which she was jolted off
every quarter of an hour by the uneasy motion of the carriage, and the checks and stops of
the engine, which was out of order. The carriage, though full of people, was heated with a
stove, and every time this was replenished with coals we were almost suffocated with the clouds
of bituminous smoke which filled it. Five hours, they said, was the usual time consumed in
this part of the journey; but we were the whole mortal night upon that uneasy railroad, and
it was five o'clock in the morning before we reached Wilmington, North Carolina. When the train
stopped it was yet quite dark, and most bitterly cold; nevertheless, the distance from the
railroad to the only inn where we could be accommodated was nothing less than a mile; and,
weary and worn out, we trudged along, the poor little sleeping children carried by their still
more unfortunate, sleepless nurses--and so by the cheerless winter starlight we walked along
the brink of the Cape Fear River, to seek where we might lay our heads.

We were shown into a room without window-curtains or shutters, the windows, as usual, not half
shut, and wholly incapable of shutting. Here, when I asked if we could have some tea, (having
fasted the whole previous day with the exception of Colonel ----'s bountiful supper), the host
pleasantly informed us that the "public breakfast would not be ready for some hours yet." I
really could not help once again protesting against this abominable tyranny of the traveling
many over the traveling few in this free country. It is supposed impossible that any individual
can hunger, thirst, or desire sleep at any other than the "public hours." The consequence is,
that let one arrive starved at an inn, one can obtain nothing till such hours as those who
are not starving desire to eat;--and if one is foredone with travel, weary, and wanting rest,
the pitiless alarum-bell, calling those who may have had twelve hours' sleep from their beds,
must startle those who have only just closed their eyes for the first time, perhaps for three
nights,--as if the whole traveling community were again at boarding-school, and as if a private
summons by the boots or chambermaid to each apartment would not answer the same purpose.

We were, however, so utterly exhausted, that waiting for the public appetite was out of the
question; and, by dint of much supplication, we at length obtained some breakfast. When, however,
we stated that we had not been in bed for two successive nights, and asked to be shown to our
rooms, the same gentleman, our host, an exceedingly pleasant person, informed us that our chamber
was prepared,--adding, with the most facetious familiarity, when I exclaimed "Our chamber!"
(we were three, and two children)--

"Oh! madam, I presume you will have no objection to sleeping with your infant" (he lumped the
two into one); "and these two ladies" (Miss ---- and Margery) "will sleep together. I dare
say they have done it a hundred times."

This unheard-of proposition, and the man's cool impudence in making it, so astonished me that
I could hardly speak. At last, however, I found words to inform him that none of our party
were in the habit of sleeping with each other, and that the arrangement was such as we were
not at all inclined to submit to. The gentleman, apparently very much surprised at our singular
habits, said, "Oh! he didn't know that the ladies were not acquainted" (as if, forsooth, one
went to bed with all one's acquaintance!) "but that he had but one room in the ladies' part
of the house."

Miss ---- immediately professed her readiness to take one in the gentlemen's "part of the house,"
when it appeared that there was none vacant there which had a fireplace in it. As the morning
was intensely cold, this could not be thought of. I could not take shelter in ----'s room;
for he, according to this decent and comfortable mode of lodging travelers, had another man
to share it with him. To our common dormitory we therefore repaired, as it was impossible that
we could any of us go any longer without rest. I established Margery and the two babies in
the largest bed; poor Miss ---- betook herself to a sort of curtainless cot that stood in one
corner; and I laid myself down on a mattress on the floor; and we soon all forgot the conveniences
of a Wilmington hotel in the supreme convenience of sleep.

It was bright morning, and drawing towards one o'clock, when we rose, and were presently summoned
to the "public dinner." The dirt and discomfort of everything was so intolerable that I could
not eat; and having obtained some tea, we set forth to walk to the steamboat Governor Dudley,
which was to convey us to Charleston. The midday sun took from Wilmington some of the desolateness
which the wintry darkness of the morning gave it; yet it looked to me like a place I could
sooner die than live in,--ruinous, yet not old,--poor, dirty, and mean, and unvenerable in
its poverty and decay. The river that runs by it is called Cape Fear River; above, on the opposite
shore, lies Mount Misery,--and heaven-forsaken enough seemed place and people to me. How good
one should be to live in such places! How heavenly would one's thoughts and imaginations of
hard necessity become, if one existed in Wilmington, North Carolina! The afternoon was beautiful,
golden, mild, and bright,--the boat we were in extremely comfortable and clean, and the captain
especially courteous. The whole furniture of this vessel was remarkably tasteful, as well as
convenient,--not forgetting the fawn-colored and blue curtains to the berths.

But what a deplorable mistake it is--be-draperying up these narrow nests, so as to impede the
poor, meagre mouthfuls of air which their dimensions alone necessarily limit one to. These
crimson and yellow, or even fawn-colored and blue silk suffocators, are a poor compensation
for free ventilation; and I always look at these elaborate adornments of sea-beds as ingenious
and elegant incentives to sea-sickness, graceful emetics in themselves, all provocation from
the water set aside. The captain's wife and ourselves were the only passengers; and, after
a most delightful walk on deck in the afternoon, and comfortable tea, we retired for the night,
and did not wake till we bumped on the Charleston bar on the morning of Christmas-day.

The William Seabrook, the boat which is to convey us from hence to Savannah, only goes once
a week.... This unfrequent communication between the principal cities of the great Southern
States is rather a curious contrast to the almost unintermitting intercourse which goes on
between the northern towns. The boat itself, too, is a species of small monopoly, being built
and chiefly used for the convenience of certain wealthy planters residing on Edisto Island,
a small insulated tract between Charleston and Savannah, where the finest cotton that is raised
in this country grows. This city is the oldest I have yet seen in America--I should think it
must be the oldest in it. I cannot say that the first impression produced by the wharf at which
we landed, or the streets we drove through in reaching our hotel, was particularly lively.
Rickety, dark, dirty, tumble-down streets and warehouses, with every now and then a mansion
of loftier pretensions, but equally neglected and ruinous in its appearance, would probably
not have been objects of special admiration to many people on this side the water; but I belong
to that infirm, decrepit, bedridden old country, England, and must acknowledge, with a blush
for the stupidity of the prejudice, that it is so very long since I have seen anything old,
that the lower streets of Charleston, in all their dinginess and decay, were a refreshment
and a rest to my spirit.

I have had a perfect red-brick-and-white-board fever ever since I came to this country; and
once more to see a house which looks as if it had stood long enough to get warmed through,
is a balm to my senses, oppressed with newness. Boston had two or three fine old dwelling-houses,
with antique gardens and old-fashioned court-yards; but they have come down to the dust before
the improving spirit of the age. One would think, that after ten years a house gets weak in
the knees. Perhaps these houses do; but I have lodged under roof-trees that have stood hundreds
of years, and may stand hundreds more,--marry, they have good foundations.

In walking about Charleston, I was forcibly reminded of some of the older country towns in
England--of Southampton a little. The appearance of the city is highly picturesque, a word
which can apply to none other American towns; and although the place is certainly pervaded
with an air of decay, 'tis a genteel infirmity, as might be that of a distressed elderly gentlewoman.
It has none of the smug mercantile primness of the northern cities, but a look of state, as
of quondam wealth and importance, a little gone down in the world, yet remembering still its
former dignity. The northern towns, compared with it, are as the spruce citizen rattling by
the faded splendors of an old family-coach in his newfangled chariot--they certainly have got
on before it. Charleston has an air of eccentricity, too, and peculiarity, which formerly were
not deemed unbecoming the well-born and well-bred gentlewoman, which her gentility itself sanctioned
and warranted--none of the vulgar dread of vulgar opinion, forcing those who are possessed
by it to conform to a general standard of manners, unable to conceive one peculiar to itself,--this
"what-'ll-Mrs.-Grundy-say" devotion to conformity in small things and great, which pervades
the American body-social from the matter of church-going to the trimming of women's petticoats,--this
dread of singularity, which has eaten up all individuality amongst them, and makes their population
like so many moral and mental lithographs, and their houses like so many thousand hideous brick-twins.

I believe I am getting excited; but the fact is, that being politically the most free people
on earth, the Americans are socially the least so; and it seems as though, ever since that
little affair of establishing their independence among nations, which they managed so successfully,
every American mother's son of them has been doing his best to divest himself of his own private
share of that great public blessing, liberty.

But to return to Charleston. It is in this respect a far more aristocratic (should I not say
democratic?) city than any I have yet seen in America, inasmuch as every house seems built
to the owner's particular taste; and in one street you seem to be in an old English town, and
in another in some continental city of France or Italy. This variety is extremely pleasing
to the eye; not less so is the intermixture of trees with the buildings, almost every house
being adorned, and gracefully screened, by the beautiful foliage of evergreen shrubs. These,
like ministering angels, cloak with nature's kindly ornaments the ruins and decays of the mansions
they surround; and the latter, time-mellowed (I will not say stained, and a painter knows the
difference), harmonize in their forms and coloring with the trees, in a manner most delightful
to an eye that knows how to appreciate this species of beauty.

There are several public buildings of considerable architectural pretensions in Charleston,
all of them apparently of some antiquity (for the New World), except a very large and handsome
edifice which is not yet completed, and which, upon inquiry, we found was intended for a guard-house.
Its very extensive dimensions excited our surprise; but a man who was at work about it, and
who answered our questions with a good deal of intelligence, informed us that it was by no
means larger than the necessities of the city required; for that they not unfrequently had
between fifty and sixty persons (colored and white) brought in by the patrol in one night.

"But," objected we, "the colored people are not allowed to go out without passes after nine
o'clock."

"Yes," replied our informant, "but they will do it, nevertheless; and every night numbers are
brought in who have been caught endeavoring to evade the patrol."

This explained to me the meaning of a most ominous tolling of bells and beating of drums, which,
on the first evening of my arrival in Charleston, made me almost fancy myself in one of the
old fortified frontier towns of the Continent where the tocsin is sounded, and the evening
drum beaten, and the guard set as regularly every night as if an invasion were expected. In
Charleston, however, it is not the dread of foreign invasion, but of domestic insurrection,
which occasions these nightly precautions; and, for the first time since my residence in this
free country, the curfew (now obsolete in mine, except in some remote districts, where the
ringing of an old church-bell at sunset is all that remains of the tyrannous custom) recalled
the associations of early feudal times, and the oppressive insecurity of our Norman conquerors.
But truly it seemed rather anomalous hereabouts, and nowadays; though, of course, it is very
necessary where a large class of persons exists in the very bosom of a community whose interests
are known to be at variance and incompatible with those of its other members. And no doubt
these daily and nightly precautions are but trifling drawbacks upon the manifold blessings
of slavery (for which, if you are stupid, and cannot conceive them, see the late Governor M'Duffy's
speeches); still I should prefer going to sleep without the apprehension of my servants cutting
my throat in my bed, even to having a guard provided to prevent their doing so. However, this
peculiar prejudice of mine may spring from the fact of my having known many instances in which
servants were the trusted and most trustworthy friends of their employers, and entertaining,
besides, some odd notions of the reciprocal duties of all the members of families one towards
the other.

The extreme emptiness which I observed in the streets, and absence of anything like bustle
or business, is chiefly owing to the season, which the inhabitants of Charleston, with something
akin to old English feeling, generally spend in hospitable festivity upon their estates; a
goodly custom, at least in my mind. It is so rare for any of the wealthier people to remain
in town at Christmas, that poor Miss ----, who had come on with us to pay a visit to some friends,
was not a little relieved to find that they were (contrary to their custom) still in the city.
I went to take my usual walk this morning, and found that the good citizens of Charleston were
providing themselves with a most delightful promenade upon the river, a fine, broad, well-paved
esplanade, of considerable length, open to the water on one side, and on the other overlooked
by some very large and picturesque old houses, whose piazzas, arches, and sheltering evergreens
reminded me of buildings in the vicinity of Naples. This delightful walk is not yet finished,
and I fear, when it is, it will be little frequented; for the southern women, by their own
account, are miserable pedestrians,--of which fact, indeed, I had one curious illustration
to-day; for I received a visit from a young lady residing in the same street where we lodged,
who came in her carriage, a distance of less than a quarter of a mile, to call upon me.

It is impossible to conceive anything funnier, and at the same time more provokingly stupid,
dirty, and inefficient, than the tribe of black-faced heathen divinities and classicalities
who make believe to wait upon us here,--the Dianas, Phillises, Floras, Cæsars, et cetera, who
stand grinning in wonderment and delight round our table, and whom I find it impossible, by
exhortation or entreaty, to banish from the room, so great is their amusement and curiosity
at my outlandish modes of proceeding. This morning, upon my entreating them not to persist
in waiting upon us at breakfast, they burst into an ungovernable titter, and withdrawing from
our immediate vicinity, kept poking their woolly heads and white grinders in at the door every
five minutes, keeping it conveniently open for that purpose.

A fine large new hotel was among the buildings which the late fire at Charleston destroyed,
and the house where we now are is the best at present in the city. It is kept by a very obliging
and civil colored woman, who seems extremely desirous of accommodating us to our minds; but
her servants (they are her slaves, in spite of her and their common complexion) would defy
the orderly genius of the superintendent of the Astor House. Their laziness, their filthiness,
their inconceivable stupidity, and unconquerable good humor, are enough to drive one stark,
staring mad. The sitting-room we occupy is spacious, and not ill-furnished, and especially
airy, having four windows and a door, none of which can or will shut. We are fortunately rid
of that familiar fiend of the North, the anthracite coal, but do not enjoy the luxury of burning
wood. Bituminous coal, such as is generally used in England, is the combustible preferred here;
and all my national predilections cannot reconcile me to it, in preference to the brilliant,
cheerful, wholesome, poetical warmth of a wood fire. Our bedrooms are dismal dens, open to
"a' the airts the wind can blaw," half furnished, and not by any means half clean. The furniture
itself is old, and very infirm,--the tables all peach with one or other leg,--the chairs are
most of them minus one or two bars,--the tongs cross their feet when you attempt to use them,--and
one poker travels from room to room, that being our whole allowance for two fires.

We have had occasion to make only two trifling purchases since we have been here; but the prices
(if these articles are any criterion) must be infinitely higher than those of the northern
shopkeepers; but this we must expect as we go further south, for, of course, they have to pay
double profits upon all the commonest necessaries of life, importing them, as they do, from
distant districts. I must record a curious observation of Margery's, on her return from church
Tuesday morning. She asked me if the people of this place were not very proud. I was struck
with the question, as coinciding with a remark sometimes made upon the South, and supposed
by some far-fetching cause-hunters to have its origin in some of their "domestic institutions."
I told her that I knew no more of them than she did; and that I had had no opportunity of observing
whether they were or not.

"Well," she replied, "I think they are, for I was in church early, and I observed the countenances
and manner of the people as they came in, and they struck me as the haughtiest, proudest-looking
people I ever saw!"

This very curious piece of observation of hers I note down without comment. I asked her if
she had ever heard, or read, the remark as applied to the southern people? She said, "Never,"
and I was much amused at this result of her physiognomical church speculations.

Last Thursday evening we left our hotel in Charleston, for the steamboat which was to carry
us to Savannah: it was not to start until two in the morning; but, of course, we preferred
going on board rather earlier, and getting to bed. The ladies' cabin, however, was so crowded
with women and children, and so inconveniently small, that sleeping was out of the question
in such an atmosphere. I derived much amusement from the very empress-like airs of an uncommonly
handsome mulatto woman, who officiated as stewardess, but whose discharge of her duties appeared
to consist in telling the ladies what they ought, and what they ought not to do, and lounging
about with an indolent dignity, which was irresistibly droll, and peculiarly Southern.

The boat in which we were, not being considered sea-worthy, as she is rather old, took the
inner passage, by which we were two nights and a day accomplishing this most tedious navigation,
creeping through cuts and small muddy rivers, where we stuck sometimes to the bottom, and sometimes
to the banks, which presented a most dismal succession of dingy, low, yellow swamps, and reedy
marshes, beyond expression wearisome to the eye. About the middle of the day on Friday, we
touched at the island of Edisto, where some of the gentlemen-passengers had business, that
being the seat of their plantations, and where the several families reside--after the eldest
member of which, Mr. Seabrook, the boat we were in was named.

Edisto, as I have mentioned before, is famous for producing the finest cotton in America--therefore,
I suppose, in the world. As we were to wait here some time, we went on shore to walk. The appearance
of the cotton-fields at this season of the year was barren enough; but, as a compensation,
I here, for the first time, saw the evergreen oak-trees (the ilex, I presume) of the South.
They were not very fine specimens of their kind, and disappointed me a good deal. The advantage
they have of being evergreen is counterbalanced by the dark and almost dingy color of the foliage,
and the leaf being minute in size, and not particularly graceful in form. These trees appeared
to me far from comparable, either in size or beauty, to the European oak, when it has attained
its full growth. We were walking on the estate of one of the Mr. Seabrooks, which lay unenclosed
on each side of what appeared to be the public road through the island.

At a short distance from the landing we came to what is termed a ginning-house--a building
appropriated to the process of freeing the cotton from the seed. It appeared to be open to
inspection; and we walked through it. Here were about eight or ten stalls on either side, in
each of which a man was employed at a machine, worked like a turner's or knife-grinder's wheel,
by the foot, which, as fast as he fed it with cotton, parted the snowy flakes from the little
black first cause, and gave them forth soft, silky, clean, and fit to be woven into the finest
lace or muslin. This same process of ginning is performed in many places, and upon our own
cotton-estate, by machinery; the objection to which however, is, that the staple of the cotton--in
the length of which consists its chief excellence--is supposed by some planters to be injured,
and the threads broken, by the substitution of an engine for the task performed by the human
fingers in separating the cotton and presenting it to the gin.

After walking through this building, we pursued our way past a large, rambling, white wood
house, and down a road, bordered on each side with evergreen oaks. While we were walking, a
young man on horseback passed us, whose light hair, in a very picturesque contempt of modern
fashion, absolutely flowed upon the collar of his coat, and was blown back as he rode, like
the disheveled tresses of a woman. On Edisto Island such a noble exhibition of individuality
would probably find few censors.

As we returned towards the boat we stopped to examine an irregular scrambling hedge of the
wild orange, another of the exquisite shrubs of this paradise of evergreens. The form and foliage
of this plant are beautiful, and the leaf, being bruised, extremely fragrant; but, as its perfume
indicates, it is a rank poison, containing a great portion of prussic acid. It grows from cuttings
rapidly and freely, and might be formed into the most perfect hedge, being well adapted, by
its close, bushy growth, to that purpose.

After leaving Edisto, we pursued the same tedious, meandering course, over turbid waters, and
between low-lying swamps, till the evening closed in. The afternoon had been foggy and rainy
and wretched. The cabin was darkened by the various outer protections against the weather,
so that we could neither read nor work. Our party, on leaving the island, had received an addition
of some young ladies, who were to go on shore again in the middle of the night, at a stopping-place
called Hilton Head. As they did not intend to sleep, they seemed to have no idea of allowing
any one else to do so; and the giggling and chattering with which they enlivened the dreary
watches of the night, certainly rendered anything like repose impossible; so I lay, devoutly
wishing for Hilton Head, where the boat stopped between one and two in the morning. I had just
time to see our boarding-school angels leave us, and a monstrous awkward-looking woman, who
at first struck me as a man in disguise, enter the cabin, before my eyes sealed themselves
in sleep, which had been hovering over them, kept aloof only by the incessant conversational
racket of my young fellow-travelers.

I was extremely amused at two little incidents which occurred the next morning before we were
called to breakfast. The extraordinary-looking woman who came into the boat during the night,
and who was the most masculine-looking lady I ever saw, came and stood by me, and, seeing me
nursing my baby, abruptly addressed me with "Got a baby with you?" I replied in the affirmative,
which trouble her eyes might have spared me. After a few minutes' silence, she pursued her
unceremonious catechism with "Married woman?" This question was so exceedingly strange, though
put in the most matter-of-course sort of way, that I suppose my surprise exhibited itself in
my countenance, for the lady presently left me--not, however, appearing to imagine that she
had said or done anything at all unusual. The other circumstance which amused me was to hear
another lady observe to her neighbor, on seeing Margery bathing my children (a ceremony never
omitted night and morning, where water can be procured); "How excessively ridiculous!" Which
same worthy lady, on leaving the boat at Savannah, exclaimed, as she huddled on her cloak,
that she never had felt so "mean in her life!" and, considering that she had gone to bed two
nights with the greater part of her day clothes on her, and had abstained from any "ridiculous"
ablutions, her mean sensations did not, I confess, much surprise me.

When the boat stopped at Savannah, it poured with rain; and in a perfect deluge, we drove up
to the Pulaski House, thankful to escape from the tedious confinement of a slow steamboat,--an
intolerable nuisance and anomaly in the nature of things. The hotel was, comparatively speaking,
very comfortable; infinitely superior to the one where we had lodged at Charleston, as far
as bed accommodations went. Here, too, we obtained the inestimable luxury of a warm bath; and
the only disagreeable thing we had to encounter was that all but universal pest in this crowd-loving
country, a public table. This is always a trial of the first water to me; and that day particularly
I was fatigued, and out of spirits, and the din and confusion of a long table d'hôte was perfectly
intolerable, in spite of the assiduous attentions of a tiresome worthy old gentleman, who sat
by me and persisted in endeavoring to make me talk. Finding me impracticable, however, he turned,
at length, in despair, to the hostess, who sat at the head of her table, and inquired in a
most audible voice if it were true, as he had understood, that Mr. and Mrs. Butler were in
the hotel? This, of course, occasioned some little amusement; and the good old gentleman being
informed that I was sitting at his elbow, went off into perfect convulsions of apologies, and
renewed his exertions to make me discourse, with more zeal than ever, asking me, among other
things, when he had ascertained that I had never before been to the South, "How I liked the
appearance of 'our blackies' (the negroes)?--no want of cheerfulness, no despondency, or misery
in their appearance, eh, madam?" As I thought this was rather begging the question, I did not
trouble the gentleman with my impressions. He was a Scotchman, and his adoption of "our blackies"
was, by his own account, rather recent, to be so perfectly satisfactory; at least, so it seems
to me, who have some small prejudices in favor of freedom and justice yet to overcome, before
I can enter into all the merits of this beneficent system, so productive of cheerfulness and
contentment in those whom it condemns to perpetual degradation.

Our night-wanderings were not yet ended, for the steamer in which we were to proceed to Darien
was to start at ten o'clock that evening, so that we had but a short interval of repose at
this same Pulaski House, and I felt sorry to leave it, in proportion to the uncertainty of
our meeting with better accommodation for a long time. The Ocmulgee (the Indian name of a river
in Georgia, and the cognomen of our steamboat) was a tiny, tidy little vessel, the exceeding
small ladies' cabin of which we, fortunately, had entirely to ourselves.

On Sunday morning the day broke most brilliantly over those southern waters, and as the sun
rose, the atmosphere became clear and warm, as in the early northern summer. We crossed two
or three sounds of the sea. The land in sight was a mere forest of reeds, and the fresh, sparkling,
crisping waters had a thousand times more variety and beauty. At the mouth of the Altamaha
is a small cluster of houses, scarce deserving the name of a village, called Doboy. At the
wharf lay two trading-vessels; the one with the harp of Ireland waving on her flag; the other
with the union-jack flying at her mast. I felt vehemently stirred to hail the beloved symbol;
but, upon reflection, forbore outward demonstrations of the affectionate yearnings of my heart
towards the flag of England, and so we boiled by them into this vast volume of turbid waters,
whose noble width, and rapid rolling current, seem appropriately called by that most euphonious
and sonorous of Indian names, the Alatamaha, which, in the common mode of speaking it, gains
by the loss of the second syllable, and becomes more agreeable to the ear, as it is usually
pronounced, the Altamaha.

On either side lay the low, reedy swamps, yellow, withered Lilliputian forests, rattling their
brittle canes in the morning breeze.... Through these dreary banks we wound a most sinuous
course for a long time; at length the irregular buildings of the little town of Darien appeared,
and as we grazed the side of the wharf, it seemed to me as if we had touched the outer bound
of civilized creation. As soon as we showed ourselves on the deck we were hailed by a shout
from the men in two pretty boats, which had pulled alongside of us; and the vociferations of
"Oh, massa! how you do, massa? Oh, missis! oh! lily missis! me too glad to see you!" accompanied
with certain interjectional shrieks, whoops, whistles, and grunts, that could only be written
down in negro language, made me aware of our vicinity to our journey's end. The strangeness
of the whole scene, its wildness (for now beyond the broad river and the low swamp lands the
savage-looking woods arose to meet the horizon), the rapid retrospect which my mind hurried
through of the few past years of my life; the singular contrasts which they presented to my
memory; the affectionate shouts of welcome of the poor people, who seemed to hail us as descending
divinities, affected me so much that I burst into tears, and could hardly answer their demonstrations
of delight. We were presently transferred into the larger boat, and the smaller one being freighted
with our luggage, we pulled off from Darien, not, however, without a sage remark from Margery,
that, though we seemed to have traveled to the very end of the world, here yet were people
and houses, ships, and even steamboats; in which evidences that we were not to be plunged into
the deepest abysses of savageness she seemed to take no small comfort.

We crossed the river, and entered a small arm of it, which presently became still narrower
and more straight, assuming the appearance of an artificial cut or canal, which indeed it is,
having been dug by General Oglethorpe's men (tradition says, in one night), and afforded him
the only means of escape from the Spaniards and Indians, who had surrounded him on all sides,
and felt secure against all possibility of his eluding them. The cut is neither very deep nor
very long, and yet both sufficiently to render the general's exploit rather marvelous. General
Oglethorpe was the first British governor of Georgia; Wesley's friend and disciple. The banks
of this little canal were mere dykes, guarding rice-swamps, and presented no species of beauty;
but in the little creek, or inlet, from which we entered it, I was charmed with the beauty
and variety of the evergreens growing in thick and luxuriant underwood, beneath giant, straggling
cypress trees, whose branches were almost covered with the pendant wreaths of gray moss peculiar
to these southern woods. Of all parasitical plants (if, indeed, it properly belongs to that
class) it assuredly is the most melancholy and dismal. All creepers, from the polished, dark-leaved
ivy, to the delicate clematis, destroy some portion of the strength of the trees around which
they cling, and from which they gradually suck the vital juices; but they, at least, adorn
the forest-shafts round which they twine, and hide, with a false, smiling beauty, the gradual
ruin and decay they make. Not so this dismal moss: it does not appear to grow, or to have root,
or even clinging fibre of any sort, by which it attaches itself to the bark or stem. It hangs
in dark gray, drooping masses from the boughs, swinging in every breeze like matted, grizzled
hair. I have seen a naked cypress with its straggling arms all hung with this banner of death,
looking like a gigantic tree of monstrous cobwebs,--the most funereal spectacle in all the
vegetable kingdom.

After emerging from the cut, we crossed another arm of the Altamaha (it has as many as Briareus)--I
should rather, perhaps, call them mouths, for this is near its confluence with the sea, and
these various branches are formed by a numerous sisterhood of small islands, which divide this
noble river into three or four streams, each of them wider than England's widest, the Thames.
We now approached the low, reedy banks of Butler's Island, and passed the rice-mill and buildings
surrounding it, all of which, it being Sunday, were closed. As we neared the bank, the steersman
took up a huge conch, and in the barbaric fashion of early times in the Highlands, sounded
out our approach. A pretty schooner, which carries the produce of the estate to Charleston
and Savannah, lay alongside the wharf, which began to be crowded with negroes, jumping, dancing,
shouting, laughing, and clapping their hands (a usual expression of delight with savages and
children), and using the most extravagant and ludicrous gesticulations to express their ecstasy
at our arrival.

On our landing from the boat, the crowd thronged about us like a swarm of bees; we were seized,
pulled, pushed, carried, dragged, and all but lifted in the air by the clamorous multitude.
I was afraid my children would be smothered. Fortunately, Mr. O----, the overseer, and the
captain of the little craft above-mentioned, came to our assistance, and by their good offices
the babies and nurse were protected through the crowd. They seized our clothes, kissed them--then
our hands, and almost wrung them off. One tall, gaunt negress flew to us, parting the throng
on either side, and embraced us in her arms. I believe I was almost frightened; and it was
not until we were safely housed, and the door shut upon our riotous escort, that we indulged
in a fit of laughing, quite as full, on my part, of nervousness as of amusement. Later in the
day I attempted to take some exercise, and thought I had escaped observation; but, before I
had proceeded a quarter of a mile, I was again enveloped in a cloud of these dingy dependents,
who gathered round me, clamoring welcome, staring at me, stroking my velvet pelisse, and exhibiting
at once the wildest delight and the most savage curiosity. I was obliged to relinquish my proposed
walk, and return home. Nor was the door of the room where I sat, and which was purposely left
open, one moment free from crowds of eager faces, watching every movement of myself and the
children, until evening caused our audience to disperse. This zeal in behalf of an utter stranger,
merely because she stood to them in the relation of a mistress, caused me not a little speculation.
These poor people, however, have a very distinct notion of the duties which ownership should
entail upon their proprietors, however these latter may regard their obligation towards their
dependents; and as to their vehement professions of regard and affection for me, they reminded
me of the saying of the satirist, that "gratitude is a lively sense of benefits to come."

                            BUTLER'S ISLAND, GEORGIA, January 8th, 1839.

I have some doubt whether any exertion whatever of your imaginative faculties could help you
to my whereabouts or whatabouts this day, dearest Emily; and therefore, for your enlightenment,
will refer you to my date, and inform you that yesterday I paid my first visit to the Sick
House, or infirmary, of our estate; and this morning spent three hours and a half there, cleaning
with my own hands the filthy room where the sick lay, and washing and dressing poor little
nearly new-born negro babies. My avocations the whole morning have been those of a sister of
charity, and I doubt if the unwearied and unshrinking benevolence of those pious creatures
ever led them, for their souls' sake, into more abominable receptacles of filth, degradation,
and misery.

It is long enough since I first mentioned to you my intention of coming down to these plantations,
if I was permitted to do so. As the time for setting forth on our journey drew near, I became
not a little appalled at the details I heard of what were likely to be the difficulties of
the mere journey: at the very end of December, with a baby at the breast, and a child as young
as S----, to travel upwards of a thousand miles, in this half-civilized country, and through
the least civilized part of it, was no joke. However, happily, it was accomplished safely,
though not without considerable suffering and heart-achings on my part.... These and other
befallings may serve for talking matter, if ever we should meet again. We all arrived here
safely on Sunday last, and my thoughts are engrossed with the condition of these people, from
whose labor we draw our subsistence; of which, now that I am here, I feel ashamed.

The place itself is one of the wildest corners of creation--if, indeed, any part of this region
can be considered as thoroughly created yet. It is not consolidated, but in mere process of
formation,--a sort of hasty-pudding of amphibious elements, composed of a huge, rolling river,
thick and turbid with mud, and stretches of mud banks, forming quaking swamps, scarcely reclaimed
from the water. The river wants straining and the land draining, to make either of them properly
wet or dry.

This island, which is only a portion of our Georgia estate, contains several thousand acres,
and is about eight miles round, and formed of nothing but the deposits (leavings, in fact)
of the Altamaha, whose brimming waters, all thick with alluvial matter, roll round it, and
every now and then threaten to submerge it. The whole island is swamp, dyked like the Netherlands,
and trenched and divided by ditches and a canal, by means of which the rice-fields are periodically
overflowed, and the harvest transported to the threshing mills. A duck, an eel, or a frog might
live here as in Paradise; but a creature of dry habits naturally pines for less wet. To mount
a horse is, of course, impossible, and the only place where one can walk is the banks or dykes
that surround the island, and the smaller ones that divide the rice-fields.

I mean to take to rowing, boats being plentiful, and "water, water everywhere"; indeed, in
spring, the overseer tells me we may have to go from house to house in boats, the whole island
being often flooded at that season.

There is neither shade nor shelter, tree nor herbage, round our residence, though there is
no reason why there should not be; for the climate is delicious, and the swampy borders of
the mainland are full of every kind of evergreen--magnolias, live oak (a species of ilex),
orange-trees, etc., and trailing shrubs, with varnished leaves, that bind the tawny, rattling
sedges together, and make summer bowers for the alligators and snakes which abound and disport
themselves here in the hot season.

I am wrong in saying that there are no trees on the island, though there are as bad as none
now. They formerly had a great number of magnificent orange-trees, that were all destroyed
by an unusually severe winter; there are a few left, however, which bear most excellent oranges....

                                     BUTLER'S ISLAND, January 8th, 1839.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

The stars are shining like one vast incrustation of diamonds; and though 'tis the 8th of January,
I have been out with bare neck and arms, standing on the brink of the Altamaha, and seeking
relief from the oppressive heat of the house. I am here, with the children, in the midst of
our slaves; and it seems to me, as I look over these wild wastes and waters, as though I were
standing on the outer edge of creation. That this is not absolutely the case, however, or that,
if it is, civilization in some forms has preceded us hither, is abundantly proved by the sights
and sounds of busy traffic, labor, and mechanical industry, which, encountered in this region
(still really half a wilderness), produce an impression of the most curiously anomalous existence
you can imagine.

Right and left, as the eye follows the broad and brimming surface of this vast body of turbid
water, it rests on nothing but low swamp lands, where the rattling sedges, like a tawny forest
of reeds, make warm winter shelters for the snakes and alligators, which the summer sun will
lure in scores from their lurking-places; or hoary woods, upon whose straggling upper boughs,
all hung with gray mosses like disheveled hair, the bald-headed eagle stoops from the sky,
and among whose undergrowth of varnished evergreens the mocking-birds, even at this season,
keep a resounding jubilee. All this looks wild enough; and as the peculiar orange light of
the southern sunset falls upon the scene, I almost expect to see the canoes of the red man
shoot from the banks, which were so lately the possession of his race alone. Immediately opposite
to me, however (only about a mile distant, the river and a swampy island intervening), lies
the little town of Darien, whose white gable-ended warehouses, shining in the sun, recall the
presence of the prevailing European race, and we can hear distinctly the sound of the steam
which the steamboat at the wharf is letting off.

Upon this island of ours (I think I look a little like Sancho Panza) we enjoy the perpetual
monotonous burden of two steam-engines working the rice mills, and instead of red men and canoes,
my illustrious self and some prettily built and gaily painted boats, which I take great delight
in rowing.

The strangeness of this existence surprises me afresh every hour by its contrast with all my
former experiences; and as I sat resting on my oars at the Darien wharf the other evening,
watching a huge cotton-raft float down the broad Altamaha, my mind wandered back to my former
life--the scenes, the people, the events, the feelings which made up all my former existence;
and I felt like the little old woman whose petticoats were cut all round about. "O Lord a mercy!
sure this is never I!" But, then, she had a resource in her dog, which I have not; and so I
am not quite sure that it is I....

The climate is too warm for me, and I almost doubt its being as wholesome for the children
as a colder one. We have now summer heat, tempered in some degree by breezes from the river
and the sea, which is only fifteen miles off; but the people of the place complain of the cold,
and apologize to me for the chilliness of the weather, which they assure me is quite unusual.
I have come home more than once, however, after a walk round the rice banks, with a bad headache,
in consequence of the fierce sunshine pouring down upon these swamps, and do not think that
I should thrive in such a climate. It is impossible here to take exercise on horseback, which
has become almost indispensable to me; and though I have adopted rowing as a substitute I find
it both a fatiguing and an inadequate one.

We live here in a very strange manner. The house we inhabit, which was intended merely as the
overseer's residence, is inferior in appearance and every decent accommodation to the poorest
farm-house in any part of England. Neither cleanliness nor comfort enter into our daily arrangements
at all. The little furniture there is in the rooms is of the coarsest and roughest description;
and the household services are performed by negroes, who run in and out, generally barefooted,
and always filthy both in their clothes and person, to wait upon us at our meals. How I have
wished for a decent, tidy, English servant of all work, instead of these begrimed, ignorant,
incapable poor creatures, who stumble about round us in zealous hindrance of each other, which
they intend for help to us. How thankful I should be if I could substitute for their unsavory
proximity while I eat, that of a clean dumb waiter. This unlimited supply of untrained savages,
(for that is what they really are) is anything but a luxury to me. Their ignorance, dirt, and
stupidity seem to me as intolerable as the unjust laws which condemn them to be ignorant, filthy,
and stupid.

The value of this human property is, alas! enormous; and I grieve to think how great is the
temptation to perpetuate the system to its owners. Of course I do not see, or at any rate have
not yet seen, anything to shock me in the way of positive physical cruelty. The refractory
negroes are flogged, I know, but I am told it is a case of rare occurrence; and it is the injustice,
and the kind, rather than the severity, of the infliction that is the most odious part of it
to me. The people are, I believe, regularly and sufficiently fed and clothed, and they have
tolerably good habitations provided for them, nor are they without various small indulgences;
but of their moral and intellectual wants no heed whatever is taken, nor are they even recognized
as existing, though some of these poor people exhibit intelligence, industry, and activity,
which seem to cry aloud for instruction and the means of progress and development. These are
probably rare exceptions, though, for the majority of those I see appear to be sunk in the
lowest slough of benighted ignorance, and lead a lazy, listless, absolutely animal existence,
far more dirty and degraded (though more comfortable, on account of the climate) than that
of your lowest and most miserable wild "bog trotters."

I had desired very earnestly to have the opportunity of judging of this matter of slavery for
myself; not, of course, that I ever doubted that to keep human beings as slaves was in itself
wrong, but I supposed that I might, upon a nearer observation of the system, discover at any
rate circumstances of palliation in the condition of the negroes: hitherto, however, this has
not been the case with me; the wrong strikes me more forcibly every hour I live here. The theory
of human property is more revolting to every sentiment of humanity; and the evil effect of
such a state of things upon the whites, who inflict the wrong, impresses me as I did not anticipate
that it would, with still more force.

The habitual harsh tone of command towards these men and women, whose labor is extorted from
them without remorse, from youth to age, and whose hopeless existence seems to me sadder than
suffering itself, affects me with an intolerable sense of impotent pity for them.... Then,
too, the disrepute in which honest and honorable labor is held, by being thus practiced only
by a degraded class, is most pernicious.

The negroes here, who see me row and walk hard in the sun, lift heavy burthens, and make various
exertions which are supposed to be their peculiar privilege in existence, frequently remonstrate
with me, and desire me to call upon them for their services, with the remark, "What for you
work, missus! You hab niggers enough to wait upon you!" You may suppose how agreeable such
remonstrances are to me.

When I remember, too, that here I see none of the worst features of this system: that the slaves
on this estate are not bought and sold, nor let out to hire to other masters; that they are
not cruelly starved or barbarously beaten, and that members of one family are not parted from
each other for life, and sent to distant plantations in other States,--all which liabilities
(besides others, and far worse ones) belong of right, or rather of wrong, to their condition
as slaves, and are commonly practiced throughout the southern half of this free country,--I
remain appalled at a state of things in which human beings are considered fortunate who are
only condemned to dirt, ignorance, unrequited labor, and, what seems to me worst of all, a
dead level of general degradation, which God and Nature, by endowing some above others, have
manifestly forbidden.

Do you remember your admiration of philanthropy because I blew the dirty nose of a little vagabond
in the street with my embroidered handkerchief? I wish you could see me cleansing and washing
and poulticing the sick women and babies in the infirmary here; I think you would admit that
I have what Beatrice commends Benedict for, "an excellent stomach."

God bless you, dear! I am not well; this slavish sunshine dries up my vitality. I have hardly
any time for writing, but shall find it to write to you.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                    BUTLER'S ISLAND, January 20th, 1839.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

To you who have, besides "swimming in a gondola" (which many of the vulgar do nowadays), paddled
in a canoe upon the wild waters of this wild western world, my present abode, savage as it
seems to me, might appear comparatively civilized. Certain it is that we are within view of
what calls itself a town, and, moreover, from that town I have received an invitation to what
calls itself a cotillon party! and yet, right and left, stretch the swamps and forests of Georgia,
where the red men have scarcely ceased to skulk, and where the rattlesnakes and alligators,
who shared the wilderness with them, still lurk in undisturbed possession of the soil, if soil
that may be called which is only either muddy water or watery mud, a hardly consolidated sponge
of alluvial matter, receiving hourly additions from the turbid current of the Altamaha.

We are here on our plantation, and if you will take a map of North America, and a powerful
magnifying-glass, you may perceive the small speck dignified by the title of "Butler's Island,"
the Barataria where I am now reigning.

Before I say any more upon this subject, however, I wish to thank you for your kind information
about my father and sister. I had a letter from her not long ago, but it was written during
her tour in Germany, before our poor mother's death, and, of course, contained little of what
must be her present thoughts and feelings, and even little indeed by which I could understand
what their plans were for the winter; but a long and very interesting account of your friends,
the Thuns, whom I should like to know....

How little pleasure you lost, in my opinion, in not proceeding further south in this country!
for your perception of beauty would have been almost as much starved as your sense of justice
would have been outraged; at least it is so with me. The sky, God's ever blessed storehouse
of light and loveliness, is almost my only resource here: for though the wide, brimming waters
of this Briareus of a river present a striking object, and the woods, with their curtains of
gray moss waving like gigantic cobwebs from every tree, and these magical-looking thickets
of varnished evergreens, have a charm, partly real, and partly borrowed from their mere strangeness;
yet the absence of all cultivation but these swampy rice-fields, and of all population but
these degraded and unfortunate slaves, render a residence here as depressing to the physical
as the moral sense of loveliness.

In contemplating the condition of women generally (a favorite subject of speculation with you,
I know), it is a pity that you have not an opportunity of seeing the situation of those who
are recognized as slaves (all that are such don't wear the collar, you know, nor do all that
wear it show it); it is a black chapter, and no joke, I can tell you.

You ask after the Sullys, and I am sorry to say that the little I saw or heard of them previous
to my leaving Philadelphia was not pleasant. He had had some disagreeable contention with the
St. George's Society about the exhibition of his picture of the queen. The dispute ended, I
believe, in his painting two; the one for the society, and the other for his own purposes of
exhibition, sale or engraving. He spoke with delight of having made your acquaintance, and
of some evenings he spent at your house. I think it very probable that he will revisit Europe;
and I hope for his sake that he will get to Italy....

                                                                F. A. B.

                           BUTLER'S ISLAND, Georgia, January 30th, 1839.
  DEAREST EMILY,

I am told that a total change in my opinions upon slavery was anticipated from my residence
on a plantation; a statement which only convinces me that one may live in the most intimate
relations with one's fellow-creatures, and really know nothing about them after all. On what
ground such an idea could be entertained I cannot conceive, or on what part of my character
it could be founded, to which (if I do not mistake myself, even more than I am misunderstood
by others) injustice is the most revolting species of cruelty.

My dear friend, do not, do not repine, but rather rejoice for your brother's own sake, that
wealth is cut off from him at such a source as slavery. [Mr. Fitzhugh had owned West Indian
property, which his sister thought had been rendered worthless by the emancipation of the slaves.]
It would be better in my mind to beg, and to see one's children beg, than to live by these
means, thinking of them as I do....

It seems to me as if the worst result of this system, fraught as it is with bad ones, is the
perversion of mind which it appears to engender in those who uphold it. I remember how hard
our Saviour pronounced it to be for a rich man to enter into heaven, and as I look round upon
these rice-fields, with their population of human beings, each one of whom is valued at so
much silver and gold, and listen to the beat of that steam-mill, which I heard commended the
other day as a "mint of money," and when I am told that every acre of this property is worth
ten per cent. more than any free English land, however valuable, it seems almost impossible
to expect that this terrible temptation to injustice should be resisted by any man; but with
God all things are possible! and doubtless He weighs the difficulty more mercifully than I can....

Since this letter was begun, we have had a death on the plantation; a poor young fellow was
taken off, after a few days' illness, yesterday. The attack was one to which the negroes are
very subject, arising from cold and exposure.... We went to his burial, which was a scene I
shall not soon forget. His coffin was brought out into the open air, and the negroes from over
the whole island assembled around it. One of their preachers (a slave like the rest) gave out
the words of a hymn, which they all sang in unison; after which he made an exhortation, and
bade us pray, and we all kneeled down on the earth together, while this poor, ignorant slave
prayed aloud and spoke incoherently, but fervently enough, of Life and Death and Immortality.
We then walked to the grave, the negroes chanting a hymn by the light of pine torches and the
uprising of a glorious moon. An old negro, who possessed the rare and forbidden accomplishment
of letters, read part of the burial service; and another stood forward and told them the story
of the raising of Lazarus. I have no room for comments, and could make none that could convey
to you what I felt or how I prayed and cried for those I was praying with....

You know, I did not think my former calling of the stage a very dignified one; I assure you
it appears to me magnificent compared with my present avocation of living by the unpaid labor
of others, and those others half of them women like myself. There is nothing in the details
of the existence of the slaves which mitigates in my opinion the sin of slavery; and this is
forced upon me every hour of the day--so painfully to my conscience, that I feel as if my happiness
for life would be affected by my involuntary participation in it. Their condition seems to
me accursed every way, and only more accursed to those who hold them in it, on whom the wrong
they commit reacts frightfully.

Not a few of these slaves know and feel that they are wronged, deplore their condition, and
are perfectly aware of its manifold hardships. Those who are not conscious of the robbery of
their freedom and their consequent degradation, are sunk in a state of the most brutish ignorance
and stupidity; and as for the pretense that their moral and mental losses are made up to them
by the secure possession of food and clothing (a thing no moral and intellectual being should
utter without a blush), it is utterly false. They are hard worked, poorly clothed, and poorly
fed; and when they are sick, cared for only enough to fit them for work again; the only calculation
in the mind of an overseer being to draw from their bones and sinews money to furnish his employer's
income, and secure him a continuance of his agency.

It is true that on this estate they are allowed some indulgence and some leisure, and are not
starved or often ill-treated; but their indulgences and leisure are no more than just tend
to keep them in a state of safe acquiescence in their lot, and it does not do that with the
brighter and more intelligent among them. There is no attempt made to improve their condition;
to teach them decency, order, cleanliness, self-respect; to open their minds or enlighten their
understandings: on the contrary, there are express and very severe laws forbidding their education,
and every precaution is taken to shut out the light which sooner or later must break into their
prison-house.

Dear Emily, if you could imagine how miserable I feel surrounded by people by whose wrong I
live! Some few of them are industrious, active, and intelligent; and in their leisure time
work hard to procure themselves small comforts and luxuries, which they are allowed to buy.
How pitiable it is to think that they are defrauded of the just price of their daily labor,
and that stumbling-blocks are put in the way of their progress, instead of its being helped
forward! My mind is inexpressibly troubled whenever I think of their minds, souls, or bodies.
Their physical condition is far from what it should be, far from what their own exertions could
make it, and there is no improving even that without calling in mental and moral influences,
a sense of self-respect, a consciousness of responsibility, knowledge of rights to be possessed
and duties discharged, advantages employed and trusts answered for; and how are slaves to have
any of these? There is no planting even physical improvement but in a moral soil, and the use
of the rational faculties is necessary for the fit discharge of the commonest labor. Alas,
for our slaves! and alas, alas, for us! I feel half distracted about it, and it is well for
you that I have no more space to write on this theme.

God bless you, my dear friend. Pray, as I do, for the end of this evil....

                                                                F. A. B.

                           BUTLER'S ISLAND, GEORGIA, February 8th, 1839.

Your letter of the 10th of November, my dear Lady Dacre, fulfilled its kindly mission without
the delay at Butler Place, the anticipation of which did not prevent your making the benevolent
effort of writing it. It reached me in safety here, in the very hindermost skirts of civilization,
recalling with so much vividness scenes and people so remote and so different from those that
now surround me, that it would have been a sad letter to me, even had it not contained the
news of Mrs. Sullivan's illness. At any time any suffering of yours would have excited my sincere
sympathy; but that your anxiety and distress should spring from such a cause, I can the more
readily deplore, from my knowledge of your daughter, which, though too slight for my own gratification,
was sufficient to make me aware of her many excellent and admirable qualities. In those books
of hers, too, "Tales of a Chaperon," and "Tales of the Peerage and the Peasantry," which since
my return to America I have re-read with increased interest, her mind and character reveal
themselves very charmingly; and I know those in this remote "other world," as doubtless there
are many in England, who, without enjoying my privilege of personal acquaintance with her,
would be fellow-mourners with you should any evil befall her. But I shall not admit this apprehension,
and I entreat you, my dear Lady Dacre, to add one more to the many kindnesses you have bestowed
on me, by letting me know how it fares with your daughter. In the mean time, if she is well
enough to receive my greeting, pray remember me most kindly to her, and tell her that from
the half-savage banks of the Altamaha, those earnest wishes, which are unspoken prayers, ascend
to heaven for her recovery.

You ask after my children.... I am in no hurry to begin educationeering; indeed, as regards
early instruction, I am a little behind the fervent zeal of the age, having considerably more
regard for what may be found in, than what may be put into, a human head; and a more earnest
desire that my child should think, even than that she should learn; and I want her to make
her own wisdom, rather than take that of any one else (my own wise self not excepted). For
fear, however, that you should imagine that I mean to let her grow up "savage," I beg to state
that she does know her letters, a study which she prosecutes with me for about a quarter of
an hour daily, out of "Mother Goose's Nursery Rhymes." I have thought myself to blame, perhaps,
for choosing a work of imagination for that elementary study; but the child, like a rational
creature, abhors the whole thing most cordially, and when I think what wondrous revelations
are flowing to her hourly through those five gates of knowledge, her senses, I am not surprised
that she despises and detests the inanimate dead letter of mere bookish lore....

My poor mother's death, which roused me most painfully to the perception of the distance which
divides me from all my early friends, has filled my mind with the gloomiest forebodings respecting
my father, and my sister's unprotected situation, should anything befall him. The passing away
of my kindred, and those who are dear to me, while I, removed to an impassable distance, only
hear of their death after a considerable lapse of time, without the consolation of being near
them, or even the preparation of hearing they were ill, is a circumstance of inexpressible
sadness....

If Macready would give me anything for my play, I would come over, if only for a month, and
see my father, whose image in sickness and depression haunts me constantly....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                   BUTLER'S ISLAND, February 10th, 1839.

It is only two days, I believe, dearest Harriet, since I finished a long letter to you, but
I am yet in your debt by one dated the 30th of November, and being in the mind to pay my owings,
I proceed to do so, as honestly as I may....

I have just been hearing a long and painful discussion upon the subject of slavery; a frequent
theme, as you will easily believe, of thought and conversation with us, now that we are living
in the midst of it; and I am assured, by those who maintain the justice of the practice of
holding slaves, that had it been otherwise than right, Christ would have forbidden it. It is
vain that I say that Christ has done so by implication, forbidding us to do otherwise than
we would be done by: I am told in reply, that neither Christ nor his disciples having ever
denounced slavery by name as unjust, or wrong, is sufficient proof that it is just and right;
and, alas! my dear Harriet, it requires more of the spirit of Christ than I possess to hear
such assertions without ungovernable impatience. I do not believe the people who utter them
are insincere or dishonest in stating such convictions; but I am shocked at the indignation
with which such fallacious arguments occasionally inspires me....

I know that (this one unfortunate question excepted) some of the persons who take these views
are just men, and have a keen perception of, and conscientious respect for, the rights of others;
but the exception is one of those perplexing moral anomalies that call for the exercise of
one's utmost forbearance in judging or condemning the opinions of others. It seems to me, that
I could tolerate an absolute moral insensibility upon the subject better than the strange moral
obliquity of justifying this horrible system by arguments drawn from Christ's teaching.

As for me, every day makes the injustice of the principle, and the cruelty of the practice,
more intolerable to me; and but for the poor people's own sake (to whom my presence among them
is of some little use and comfort), I would only too gladly turn my back upon the dreadful
place, and never again set foot near it.... It would not surprise me if I was never allowed
to return here, for these very conversations and discussions upon the subject of the slave
system are considered dangerous, and justice and freedom cannot be mentioned safely here but
with closed doors and whispering voices.... I pray with all the powers of my soul that God
would enlighten these unfortunate slave-holders, and enable them to perceive better the spirit
of Christ, who they say never denounced slavery as either an evil or sin; the evil consequences
of it to themselves are by far the worst of all. So I go struggling on with this strange existence,
and sometimes feel weary enough of it....

God bless you, dear. I believe I am going with the children to the cotton-plantation, where
I shall be able to ride again, and shall be better in mind, body, though not estate, for my
long-accustomed exercise.

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                          ST. SIMON'S, March 10th, 1839.

I wish, dear Emily, I could for an instant cause a vision to rise before you of the perfect
paradise of evergreens through which I have been opening paths on our estate, in an island
called St. Simon's, lying half in the sea and half in the Altamaha. Such noble growth of dark-leaved,
wide-spreading oaks; such exquisite natural shrubberies of magnolia, wild myrtle, and bay,
all glittering evergreens of various tints, bound together by trailing garlands of wild jessamine,
whose yellow bells, like tiny golden cups, exhale a perfume like that of the heliotrope and
fill the air with sweetness, and cover the woods with perfect curtains of bloom; while underneath
all this, spread the spears and fans of the dwarf palmetto, and innumerable tufts of a little
shrub whose delicate leaves are pale green underneath and a polished dark brown above, while
close to the earth clings a perfect carpet of thick-growing green, almost like moss, bearing
clusters of little white blossoms like enameled stars; I think it is a species of euphrasia.
It is the exceeding beauty of the whole which I wish you could see, and to which the most exquisite
arrangement of art is in no way superior. I know it is common with the lovers of nature to
undervalue art; but for all that, there are exceedingly few scenes in nature (except those
of pre-eminent wildness and sublimity) where the genius of man, and his perception of beauty,
may not remove and supply some things with advantage. In these wild evergreen plantations this
is not the case; and all I have had to do, in following the cattle-tracks through these lovely
woods, has been to cut the lower branches of the oaks which impede my progress on horseback,
and sever the loving links of the wild garlands of blossoms, which had bound the shrubs together
and drawn their branches into a canopy too low to admit of my riding beneath it; and you would
laugh to see me with my peculiar slave, a young lad named Jack, of great natural shrewdness
and no little humor, who is my factotum, and follows me on horseback with a leathern bag slung
round his shoulders, containing a small saw and hatchet, and thus, like Sir Walter and Tom
Purdie, we prosecute our labor of embellishment.

This Jack was out fishing with me the other day, and after about two hours' silent and unsuccessful
watching of our floats, he gravely remarked, "Fishing bery good fun, when de fish him bite,"--an
observation so ludicrous under the circumstances, that we both burst out laughing as soon as
he uttered it.

                           ST. SIMON'S ISLAND, Sunday, March 17th, 1839.
  MY DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

I cannot conceive how you could do such a wicked thing as to throw a letter you had begun into
the fire, or such a cruel one as to inform the person who was to have received it of your exploit.

You burned your account of my sister's first appearance because, forsooth, the "newspapers"
or "Harriet S----" would be sure to afford me the intelligence! But it so happens that I never
see a newspaper, and that that identical letter of Harriet's was cast away in one of those
unfortunate New York packets blown ashore in the late tremendous gales. It has since reached
me, however; but she, too, thinking fit to go upon some fallacious calculation of human probabilities,
takes it for granted that Adelaide has written me a full, true, and particular account of the
whole business, and sums up all details in the mere intelligence, which had already reached
me, of her having made a successful first appearance at Venice. Pray, my dear Mrs. Jameson,
do not be afraid of supplying me with twice-told tales of my own people, but whenever you are
good enough to write to me, let me know all that you know about them....

I do not know why you should have associated the ill-fated Pennsylvania with any thought of
me. I never crossed the Atlantic in a ship so named, but the St. Andrew, one of the wrecked
vessels, was the one in which we returned to America two years ago, and probably you may have
written the one name for the other by mistake.

Of the appearance of your book, and the attention it has excited, I hear from Catharine Sedgwick.
As for me, the only new book I have seen since my sojourn in these outhouses of civilization,
is that exquisite volume whose evergreen leaves, of every tint and texture, are rustling in
the bright sunshine and fresh sea-breeze of this delicious winter climate.

Art never devised more perfect combinations of form and color than these wild woods present,
with their gigantic growth of evergreen oak, their thickets of myrtle and magnolia, their fantastic
undergrowth of spiked palmetto, and their hanging draperies of jessamine, whose gold-colored
bells fill the air with fragrance long before one approaches the place where it grows.

You would laugh if I were to recount some of my manifold avocations here; my qualifications
for my situation should be more various than those of a modern governess, for it appears to
me there is nothing strange and unusual by way of female experience that I have not been called
upon to perform since I have lived here, from marking out the proper joints on the carcass
of a dead sheep, into which it should be divided for the table, to officiating as clergyman
to a congregation of our own poor people, whose desire for religious instruction appears to
be in exact proportion to the difficulty they have in obtaining it....

I am on horseback every day, clearing paths through the woods; and though the life I lead has
but a very remote resemblance to that of a civilized creature, a quondam dweller in the two
great cities of the world and frequenter of polished societies therein, it has some recommendations
of its own. To be sure, so it should have; for I inhabit a house where the staircase is open
to the roof, and the roof, unmitigated by ceiling, plaster, skylight, or any intermediate shelter,
presents to my admiring gaze, as I ascend and descend, the seamy side of the tiles, or rather
wooden shingles, with which the house is covered; with all the rude raftering, through which
do shine the sun, moon, and stars, the winds do blow, and the rain of heaven does fall. Every
door in the house is fastened with wooden latches and pack-thread; the identical device of
Red Riding-hood antiquity, and the solitary bell of the establishment rings by means of a rope,
suspended from the lintel, outside the room where I sit, and I expect to find myself hanging
in it every time I go in and out, and which always inclines me to inquire what has been done
with the body that was last cut down from it....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                   ST. SIMON'S ISLAND, March 17th, 1839.

That letter of yours which I lamented as lost, my dear Harriet, has reached me all stained
and defaced (yet not so but that it can be read), having evidently been steeped in the merciless
waves of the Mersey. Your letter has suffered shipwreck, having of course been cast back towards
you, in one of those unfortunate New York packets which were lost in those late tremendous
gales; and if the poor pickled sheet of paper could speak anything beside what you have told
it, how many sad horrors, unrecorded in the summary newspaper reports of the late disasters,
it might reveal.

I have a dreadful dread, and a fearful fear, of drowning, and the sight of your letter, all
sea-stained, conjures up as many terrible thoughts as poor Clarence had in the last dream that
preceded his last sleep.

Almost the saddest to me of all the items of ruin and destruction enumerated in the newspaper
records of the late storm, was the carrying away of the Menai Bridge, and that on your account.
I thought of it as almost a personal loss and grief to you. You had so often described it to
me, its beauty and its grandeur; and though I had never seen it, I had a distinct imagination
of it, gathered far more from your descriptions, than from engravings or accounts of tourists:
and it was so associated with you in my mind, that, reading of it being all blown to tatters,
I felt dismayed to think of your beautiful bridge thus ruined, and of your distress at its
destruction. You used to speak of that with the same species of delight that beautiful natural
objects excite in me: and enjoyment so vivid, and at the same time so abiding, that I sometimes,
under the influence of such impressions, feel as if I loved some places better than any people.
Certainly the magical effect of certain beautiful scenes upon my mind is the most intense and
lasting pleasure I have ever known....

I returned here yesterday to my children, whom I left with Margery, while I went up to Butler's
Island to do duty, I am sorry to say, as sick-nurse....

The observations of children, which are quoted as indications of peculiar intelligence, very
often only appear so, because the objects which call them forth, having become familiar to
us, have ceased to impress us rightly, or perhaps at all. Every child who is not a fool will
frequently make remarks about many things which are only striking because conventional uses
and educated habits of thought have, on many points, blunted their effect upon us, and obscured
our perceptions of their qualities, and left us with duller senses, and a duller general sense
in some respects, than those of a child or savage....

I have been performing an office this morning, which, like sundry others I have been called
upon to discharge here (marking on the carcass of a sheep, for instance, the proper joints
into which it should be cut for the table), is new to me. I read prayers to between twenty
and thirty of the slaves, who are here without church, pastor, or any means whatever of religious
instruction. There was something so affecting to me in my involuntary relation to these poor
people,--in the contrast, too, between the infirm old age of many of them, and the comparative
youth of me, their instructress,--in my impotence to serve them and my passionate desire to
do so,--that I could hardly command my voice. The composition of our service was about as liberal
as was ever compounded by any preacher or teacher of any Christian sect, I verily believe:
it was selected from the English book of Common Prayer, a Presbyterian collection of Prayers,
the "Imitation of Jesus Christ," which excellent Roman Catholic book of devotion I borrowed
from Margery, and the Blessed Bible--the fountain from which have flowed all these streams
for the refreshment of human souls. From these I compiled a short service, dismissing my congregation
without a sermon, having none with me fit for their comprehension, and lacking courage to extemporize
one, though vehemently moved by the spirit to do so. I think on Sunday next I will write one
especially for their edification.

After this I went with S---- and Margery, and baby in her little wicker carriage, accompanied
by a long procession of negro children, to explore the woods near the house: not without manifest
misgivings on the part of my dusky escort, whose terror of rattlesnakes is greater even than
my terrified imagination about them. My greatest anxiety was to keep S---- from marching in
the van and preceding us all in these reptiline discoveries.... Way, in the proper sense of
the term, there was none; for the expedition was chiefly for the purpose of observing where
paths could be cleared with best advantage through this charming wilderness. To crown the doings
of the day, I have written you this long letter, the fifth I date to you from Georgia.

                              Ever most affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                             NEW YORK, April 30th, 1839.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

How much I wish I could but look into your face, but hold your hand, or embrace you! How much
I wish I were near you, that I might silently as alone benefits such occasions, express to
you my sympathy for your sorrow....

The news of your loss was the greater shock to me that I had just written a letter, introducing
to you a dear friend of mine, Miss Sedgwick, now about visiting England, and bespeaking your
kindness and good-will for her. This lady will still be the bearer of this (a most different
epistle from the one I had prepared) and a little fan made of the feathers of one of our Southern
birds, which you will not look upon with indifference, because it is sent to you by one who
loves you truly and gratefully, and who would gladly do anything to afford you one moment's
relief from those sad thoughts which I fear must possess you wholly.

I had ventured with especial confidence to recommend my friend to your notice, because she
possesses, in no small degree, some of those qualities which distinguished your excellent and
accomplished daughter; the same talent, applied with profound conscientiousness to the improvement
of the young and poor and ignorant; the same devotion to the good of all who come within her
sphere; the same pervading sense of religious responsibility.

Dear Lady Dacre, for the sake of those who love you,--for the sake of him whom you love above
all others, your admirable husband,--for the sake of the darlings your child has left, a precious
legacy and trust to you, do not let this affliction bow down the noble courage of your nature,
but raise yourself even under this heavy burden, that the world may not by her death lose the
good influence of two bright spirits at once. Do not think me bold and impertinent that I venture
thus to exhort you. It is my affection that speaks, and the fear I feel of the terrible effect
this loss may have upon you. Once more, God bless and support you, and give you that reliance
upon Him which is our only strength in the hours of our earthly sorrows. She whom you mourn
is blest, if ever goodness might secure blessing; and the recollection of her many virtues
must take from her death those contemplations which alone can make death awful. Farewell, dear
friend. My heart yearns towards you in your grief very tenderly, and I am always

  Most affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                            BUTLER PLACE, PHILADELPHIA, June 24th, 1839.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I am afraid you will think my Northern residence less propitious to correspondence than the
Georgia plantation, as I am again in your debt.... But what have I to tell you of myself, or
anything belonging to me? Ever since I returned from New York, whither I went to see Catharine
Sedgwick sail for England, I have been vegetating here, as much as in me lies to vegetate;
but though my life has quite as few incidents as the existence of the lilies and the roses
in the flower-beds, the inward nature makes another life of it, and the restless soul can never
be made to vegetate, even though the body does little else.... My days roll on in a sort of
dreamy, monotonous succession, with an imperceptible motion, like the ceaseless creeping of
the glaciers. I teach S---- to read. I order my household, I read Mrs. Jameson's book about
Canada, I write to you, I copy out for Elizabeth Sedgwick the journal I kept on the plantation,
I ride every day, and play on the piano just enough not to forget my notes, et voila! Once
a week I go to town, to execute commissions, or return visits, and on Sundays I go to church;
and so my life slides away from me. My head and heart, however, are neither as torpid nor as
empty as my hours; and I often find, as others have done, that external stagnation does not
necessarily produce internal repose. Occasionally, but seldom, people come from town to see
us; and sometimes, but not often, small offices of courtesy and kindness are exchanged between
me and my more immediate neighbors. And now my story is done.... I really live almost entirely
alone....

I am beginning to fear that I shall not be taken to the Virginia springs this summer. If I
go, I am told I must leave the children behind, the roads and accommodations being such as
to render it perfectly impossible to take them with us. Indeed, the inconveniences of the journey
and the discomforts of the residence there are represented to us as so great, that I am afraid
I shall not be thought able to endure them. If it is settled that I cannot go thither, I shall
go up to Massachusetts, where, though the material civilities of life are yet in their swaddling
clothes, I have dear friends, and the country is lovely all around where I should be.

I have just seen some plans for a large hotel, which it is proposed to build on some property
we own in the city, in a position extremely well adapted for such a purpose. I was very much
pleased with them: they are upon the wholesale scale of lodging and entertainment, which travelers
in this country require and desire; and combine as much comfort and elegance as are compatible
with such a style of establishment. We, you know, in England, always like our public houses
to be as like private ones as possible. The reverse is the case here, and the lodging-house
or hotel recommends itself chiefly by being able to accommodate as many people as can well
congregate at a table d'hôte or in a public drawing-room, that being a good deal the idea of
society which appears to exist in many people's minds here....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                 BUTLER PLACE, Thursday, July 4th, 1839.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

It is the 4th of July, the day on which the Declaration of American Independence was read to
the assembled citizens of Philadelphia from the window of the City State House. The anniversary
is celebrated from north to south and east to west of this vast country: by the many, with
firing of guns, and spouting of speeches, drinking of drams, and eating of dinners; by the
few, with understanding prayer, praise and thankfulness for the past, and hope, not unalloyed
with some misgiving, for the future.

In the gravel walk, at the back of our house, under a double row of tall trees that meet overhead,
all our servants and the people employed on the place and their children, are congregated at
dinner, to the tune of thirty-seven apparently well-satisfied souls, and as I went to see them
just now, a farmer who is our tenant across the road, and has tenanted the place where he lives
for the space of twenty years, assured me that I was a "real American!" He is an Irishman,
and I might have returned his compliment by telling him he was half an Englishman, for a man
who remains twenty years in one place in this country, and upon ground that he does not own,
is a very uncommon personage.

You would scarcely believe how difficult it is to establish a pleasant footing with persons
of this class here. Dependents they do not and ought not to consider themselves (for they are
not such in any sense whatever); equals, their own perceptions show them they are not in any
sense, but a political one; and they seem to me, in consequence, to be far less at their ease
really in their intercourse with their employers or landlords than our own people, with their
much more positive and definite sense of difference of condition and habits of life. Indeed,
to establish a real feeling--a true one--of universal equality, warranted by the fact of its
existence, would require a population, not of American Republicans, such as they are, but of
Christian philosophers, such as do not exist at all anywhere yet, or, if at all, only by twos
or threes scattered among millions....

You ask me how far Butler's Island was from St. Simon's [the rice and cotton plantations in
Georgia]. Fifteen miles of water--great huge river mouth or mouths, and open sounds of the
sea, with half-submerged salt marsh islands wallowing in the midst of them.... Over these waters--pretty
rough surfaces, too, sometimes--we traveled to and fro between the plantations in open boats,
generally in a long canoe that flew under its eight oars like an arrow. The men often sang,
while they rowed, the whole way when I was in the boat, and some of their melodies are very
wild and striking, and their natural gift of music remarkable. As the boat approached the landing,
the steersman brayed forth our advent through a monstrous conch, when the whole shore would
presently be crowded with our dusky dependents, the whole thing reminding one of former semi-barbaric
times, and modes of life in the islands of the northwest of Scotland. Some of the airs the
negroes sing have a strong affinity to Scotch melodies in their general character....

It is near ten o'clock in the evening, and with you it is five hours earlier, so you are probably
thinking of dressing for dinner; though, by-the-bye, you are not at home at Ardgillan, but
wandering somewhere about in Germany--I know not where; neither may I by any means imagine
how you are employed; and your image rises before me without one accompanying detail of familiar
place, circumstance, or occupation, to give it a this-world's likeness. I see you as I might
if you were dead--your simple apparition unframed by any setting that I can surround it with;
and it is thus that I now see all my friends and kindred, all those I love in my own country;
for the lapse of time and the space of distance between us render all thoughts of them, even
of their very existence, vague and uncertain. Klopstock, who wrote letters to the dead, hardly
corresponded more absolutely with the inhabitants of another world than I do....

I drove into town this morning by half-past ten o'clock to church, a six-miles' journey I take
most Sundays. The weekday generally passes in reading "Nicholas Nickleby," walking about the
garden, and devising alterations which I hope may turn out improvements, playing and singing
half a dozen pieces of music half a century old, and writing to the "likes of you" (though,
indeed, to me you are still a nonesuch). Farewell, dearest Harriet, und schlafen sie recht
wohl. Is that the way you say it, whereabouts you are?

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                          BUTLER PLACE, July 14th, 1839.

I wrote to you a short time ago, dearest Harriet; but I am still in your debt, and though I
have nothing to tell you (when should I write if I waited for that?), I have abundant leisure
to tell it in, and the mind to talk with you. The last is never wanting, but now what a pity
it is that I must make this miserable sheet of paper my voice, instead of having you here on
this piazza, as we call our verandahs here, with the pomegranate and cape jessamine bushes
in bloom in their large green boxes just before me, and a row of great fat hydrangeas (how
is that spelled?) nodding their round, fat, foolish-looking pink and blue heads at me....

We are most strongly urged to try the effect of the natural hot sulphur baths of Virginia;
their efficacy being very great in cases of rheumatic affections.... I am very much afraid,
however, that I shall not be allowed to go thither; and in that case shall probably take my
way up to my friends in Berkshire, Massachusetts, the Sedgwicks, who, though they have sent
a detachment of six to perambulate Europe just now, still form with the remaining members of
the family the chief part of the population of that district of New England.

Catharine, who is one of them that I love best, is one among the gone; but her brother and
his wife, next door to whom I generally take up my abode during some part of the summer, are
as excellent, and nearly as dear to me, as she is....

My occupations are nothing; my amusements less than nothing. Of what avail is it that I should
tell you of lonely rides taken in places you never heard of, or books I have read, the titles
of which (being American) you never saw; or that I am revolutionizing the gravel walks in my
garden, opening up new and closing up old ones? There is no use in telling you any of this.
As long as I live, that is to all eternity, you know that I shall love you; but it is decreed
that in this portion of that eternity you can know little else about me, however it may be
hereafter. I wonder if it will ever be for us again to interchange communion daily and hourly,
as we once did; I do not see how it should come to pass in this our present life; but it may
be one of the blessings of a better and happier existence to resume our free and full former
intercourse with each other, without any of the alloy of human infirmity or untoward circumstance.
Amen! so be it! God bless you, dear. I long to see you once more, and am ever affectionately yours,

                                                                F. A. B.

                                          BUTLER PLACE, July 21st, 1839.

I was looking over a letter of yours, dear Harriet, just now, which answered one of mine from
Georgia, and find therein a perfect burst of eloquence upon the subject of fishing. Now, though
I know destructiveness to be not only a bump, but a passion of yours, I still should not have
imagined that you could take delight in that dreamy, lazy, lounging pursuit, if pursuit that
may be called in which one stands stock-still by the hour. As for me, the catching of fish
was always a subject of perfect ecstasy to me--so much so, indeed, that our little company
of piscators at Weybridge used to entreat me to "go further off," or "get out of the boat,"
whenever I had a bite, because my cries of joy were enough to scare all the fish in the river
down to Sheerness. It was the lingering, fidgeting, gasping, plunging agonies of the poor creatures,
after they were caught, which I objected to so excessively, and which made me renounce the
amusement in spite of my passion for it. When I resumed it in Georgia, it was with the full
determination to find out some speedy mode of putting my finny captives to death--as you are
to understand that I have not the slightest compunction about killing, though infinite about
torturing,--so my "slave," Jack, had orders to knock them on the head the instant he took the
hook from their gills; but he banged them horribly, till I longed to bang him against the boat's
side, and even cut their throats from ear to ear, so that they looked like so many Banquos
without the "gory locks"; and yet the indomitable life in the perverse creatures would make
them leap up with a galvanic spring and gasp, that invariably communicated an electric shock
to my nerves, and produced the fellow-spring and gasp from me. This was the one drawback to
my fishing felicity; oh! yes--I forgot the worms or live bait, though! Harriet, it is a hideous
diversion, and that is all that can be said for it; and I wonder at you for indulging in it.

I tried paste, most exquisitely compounded of rice, flour, peach brandy, and fine sugar; but
the Altamaha fish were altogether too unsophisticated for any such allurement; it would probably
be safe to put a paté de foie gras or a pineapple before an Irish hedger and ditcher.

The white mullet, shad, and perch of the Altamaha are the most excellent animals that ever
went in water. At St. Simon's the water is entirely salt, and often very rough, as it is but
a mile and a half from the open sea, and the river there is in fact a mere arm of salt water.
It is hardly possible ever to fish like a lady, with a float, in it; but the negroes bait a
long rope with clams, shrimps, and oysters, and sinking their line with a heavy lead, catch
very large mullet, fine whitings, and a species of marine monster, first cousin once removed
to the great leviathan, called the drum, which, being stewed long enough (that is, nobody can
tell how long) with a precious French sauce, might turn out a little softer than the nether
millstone, and so perhaps edible: mais avec cette sauce là on mangerait son père, and perhaps
without the family indigestion that lasted the Atridæ so long.

One of these creatures was sent to me by one of our neighbors as a curiosity; it was upwards
of four feet long, weighed over twenty pounds, and had an enormous head. I wouldn't have eaten
a bit of it for the world!

The waters all round St. Simon's abound in capital fish; beds of oysters, that must be inexhaustible
I should think, run all along the coast; shrimps and extraordinarily large prawns are taken
in the greatest abundance, and good green turtle, it is said, is easily procured at a short
distance from these shores.

You ask what sort of house we had down there. Why, truly, wretched enough. There were on the
two plantations no fewer than eight dwelling houses, all in different states and stages of
uninhabitableness, half of them not being quite built up, and the other half not quite fallen down.

The grandfather of the present proprietor built a good house on the island of St. Simon's,
in a beautiful situation on a point of land where two rivers meet--rather, two large streams
of salt water, fine, sparkling, billowy sea rivers. Before the house was a grove of large orange-trees,
and behind it an extensive tract of down, covered with that peculiar close, short turf which
creates South Down and Pré Salé mutton: and overshadowed by some magnificent live-oaks and
white mulberry-trees. By degrees, however, the tide, which rises to a great height here, running
very strongly up both these channels, has worn away the bank, till tree by tree the orange
grove has been entirely washed away, and the water at high tide is now within six feet of the
house itself; or rather, there are only six feet of distance between the building and the brink
of the bank on which it stands, which is considerably above the river.

The house has been uninhabited for a great many years, and is, of course, ruinously out of
repair. It contains one very good room, and might be made a decently comfortable dwelling;
but it has been ordered to be pulled down, because, if it is not, the materials will soon be
swept away in the rapid demolition of the bank by the water. The house we resided in was the
overseer's dwelling, situated on the point also, but further from the water, and having the
extent of grass-land and trees in front of it, together with a beautiful water prospect; in
fact, in a better situation than the other. As for the house itself, it would have done very
well for our short residence if it had been either finished or furnished. The rooms were fairly
well-sized, and there were five of them in all, besides two or three little closets. But although
the primitive simplicity of whitewashed walls in our drawing and dining-room did not affect
my happiness, the wainscoting and even the crevices of the floor admitted perfect gusts of
air that rather did. The windows and doors, even when professing to be shut, could never be
called closed; and on one or two gusty evenings, the carpet in the room where I was sitting
heaved and undulated by means of a stream of air from under the door, like a theatrical representation
of the ocean in extreme agitation. The staircase was of the roughest description, such as you
would not find in the poorest English farm-house, covered only by the inside of the roof, rough
shingles--that is, wooden tiles--and all the beams, rafters, etc., etc., of the roofing, admitting
little starry twinklings of sun or moonlight, perfectly apparent to the naked eye of whoever
ascended or descended. Such was my residence on the estate of Hampton on great St. Simon's
Island; and it was infinitely superior in size, comfort, and everything else to my abode on
Butler's Island, which was indeed a very miserable hole.

The St. Simon's house being sufficiently roomy, I presently set about making it as far as possible
convenient and comfortable. I had a fine large table, such as might have become some august
board of business men, made of plain white pine and covered in with sober-looking dark green
merino. I next had a settee constructed--cushions, covers, etc., cut out and mainly stitched
by my own fair fingers; we stuffed it with the native moss; and I had a pretty white peignoir
made for it, with stuff which I got from that emporium of fashionable luxury, Darien; and this
was quite an item of elegance, as well as comfort. Another table in my sitting-room was an
old, rickety, rheumatic piece of furniture of the "old Major's," the infirmities of which I
gayly concealed under a Macgregor plaid shawl, never burdening its elderly limbs with any greater
weight than a vase of flowers; and by the help of plenty of this exquisite, ornamental furniture
of nature's own providing, and a tolerable collection of books, which we had taken down to
the South with us, my sitting-room did not look uncomfortable or uncheerful.

If, however, I am to winter there again this year, I shall endeavor to make it a little more
like the dwelling of civilized human beings by the introduction of locks to the doors, instead
of wooden latches pulled by pack-thread; and bells, of which at present there is but one in
the whole house, and that is a noose, hanging just outside the sitting-room door, by which
I expected to be caught and throttled every time I went in and out....

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                LENOX, August 9th, 1839.

I turn from interchange of thought and feeling with my friends here, dearest Harriet, to read
again an unanswered letter of yours; and as I dwell upon your affectionate words, while my
eyes wander over the beautiful landscape which my window commands, my mind is filled with the
consideration of the great treasure of love that has been bestowed upon me out of so many hearts,
and I wonder as I ponder. God knows how devoutly I thank Him for this blessing above all others,
granted to me in a measure so far above my deserts, that my gratitude is mingled with surprise
and a sense of my own unworthiness, which enhances my appreciation of my great good fortune
in this respect.... In seasons of self-reproach and self-condemnation it is an encouragement
and a consolation, and helps to lift one from the dust, to reflect that good and noble spirits
have loved one--spirits too good and too noble, one would fain persuade one's self, to love
what is utterly base and unworthy....

You ask me if I have kept any journal, or written anything lately. During my winter in the
South I kept a daily journal of whatever occurred to interest me, and I am now busily engaged
in copying it.... Since the perpetration of that "English Tragedy," now in your safe keeping,
I have written nothing else; and probably, until I find myself again under the influence of
some such stimulus as my mind received on returning to England, my intellectual faculties will
remain stagnant, so far as any "worthy achievement," as Milton would say, is concerned. You
see, I persist in considering that play in that light....

I am ashamed to say that I am exceedingly sleepy. I have been riding sixteen miles over these
charming hills. The day is bright and breezy, and full of shifting lights and shadows, playing
over a landscape that combines every variety of beauty,--valleys, in the hollows of which lie
small lakes glittering like sapphires; uplands, clothed with grain-fields and orchards, and
studded with farm-houses, each the centre of its own free domain; hills clothed from base to
brow with every variety of forest tree; and woods, some wild, tangled, and all but impenetrable,
others clear of underbrush, shady, moss-carpeted and sun-checkered; noble masses of granite
rock, great slabs of marble (of which there are fine quarries in the neighborhood), clear mountain
brooks and a full, free-flowing, sparkling river;--all this, under a cloud-varied sky, such
as generally canopies mountain districts, the sunset glories of which are often magnificent.
I have good friends, and my precious children, an easy, cheerful, cultivated society, my capital
horse, and, in short, most good things that I call mine--on this side of the water--with one
heavy exception....

My dearest Harriet, my drowsiness grows upon me, so that my eyelids are gradually drawing together
as I look out at the sweet prospect, and the blue shimmer of the little lake and sunny waving
of the trees are fading all away into a dream before me. Good-bye.

                              Your sleepy and affectionate
                                                                F. A. B.

    [When I was in London, some time after the date of this letter, I
    received an earnest request from one of the most devoted of the New
    England abolitionists, to allow the journal I kept while at the
    South to be published, and so give the authority of my experience to
    the aid of the cause of freedom. This application occasioned me
    great trouble and distress, as it was most painful to me to refuse
    my testimony on the subject on which I felt so deeply; but it was
    impossible for me then to feel at liberty to publish my journal.

    When the address, drawn up at Stafford House, under the impulse of
    Mrs. Beecher Stowe's powerful novel, and the auspices of Lord
    Shaftesbury and the Duchess of Sutherland (by Thackeray denominated
    the "Womanifesto against Slavery"), was brought to me for my
    signature, I was obliged to decline putting my name to it, though I
    felt very sure no other signer of that document knew more of the
    facts of American slavery, or abhorred it more, than I did; but
    also, no other of its signers knew, as I did, the indignant sense of
    offense which it would be sure to excite in those to whom it was
    addressed; its absolute futility as to the accomplishment of any
    good purpose, and the bitter feeling it could not fail to arouse,
    even in the women of the Northern States, by the assumed moral
    superiority which it would be thought to imply.

    I would then gladly have published my journal, had I been at liberty
    to do so, and thus shown my sympathy with the spirit, though not the
    letter, of the Stafford House appeal to the women of America.

    It was not, however, until after the War of Secession broke out,
    while residing in England, and hearing daily and hourly the
    condition of the slaves discussed, in a spirit of entire sympathy
    with their owners, that nothing but the most absolute ignorance
    could excuse, that I determined to publish my record of my own
    observations on a Southern plantation.

    At the time of my doing so, party feeling on the subject of the
    American war was extremely violent in England, and the people among
    whom I lived were all Southern sympathizers. I believe I was
    suspected of being employed to "advocate" the Northern cause (an
    honor of which I was as little worthy as their cause was in need of
    such an advocate); and my friend, Lady ----, told me she had
    repeatedly heard it asserted that my journal was not a genuine
    record of my own experiences and observation, but "cooked up" (to
    use the expression applied to it) to serve the purpose of party
    special pleading. This, as she said, she was able to contradict upon
    her own authority, having heard me read the manuscripts many years
    before at her grandmother's, Lady Dacre's, at the Hoo.

    This accusation of having "cooked up" my journal for a particular
    end may perhaps have originated from the fact that I refused to
    place the whole of it in the hands of the printers, giving out to be
    printed merely such portions as I chose to submit to their
    inspection, which, as the book was my personal diary, and contained
    matter of the most strictly private nature, was not perhaps
    unreasonable. The republication of this book in America had not been
    contemplated by me; my purpose and my desire being to make the facts
    it contained known in England. In the United States, by the year
    1862, abundant miserable testimony of the same nature needed no
    confirmation of mine. My friend, Mr. John Forbes, of Boston,
    however, requested me to let him have it republished in America, and
    I very gladly consented to do so.[4]

        [4] I have omitted from the letters written on the plantation,
        at the same time as this diary, all details of the condition of
        the slaves among whom I was living; the painful effect of which
        upon myself however, together with my general strong feeling
        upon the subject of slavery, I have not entirely
        suppressed--because I do not think it well that all record
        should be obliterated of the nature of the terrible curse from
        which God in His mercy has delivered English America.

        In countless thousands of lamentable graves the bitter wrong
        lies buried--atoned for by a four-years' fratricidal war: the
        beautiful Southern land is lifting its head from the disgrace of
        slavery and the agony of its defense. May its free future days
        surpass in prosperity (as they surely will a thousand-fold)
        those of its former perilous pride of privilege--of race
        supremacy and subjugation.

    An extremely interesting and clever book, called "A Fool's Errand,"
    embodies under the form of a novel, an accurate picture of the
    social condition of the Southern States after the war--a condition
    so replete with elements of danger and difficulty, that the highest
    virtue and the deepest wisdom could hardly have coped successfully
    with them; and from a heart-breaking and perhaps unsuccessful
    struggle with which, Abraham Lincoln's murder delivered him, I
    believe, as a reward for his upright and noble career.]

                                            LENOX, September 11th, 1839.

Thank you, my dear Lady Dacre, for your kindness in writing to me again. I would fain know
if doing so may not have become a painful effort to you, or if my letters may not have become
irksome to you. Pray have the real goodness to let me know, if not by your own hand, through
our friends William Harness or Emily Fitzhugh, if you would rather not be disturbed by my writing
to you, and trust that I shall be grateful for your sincerity.

You know I do not value very highly the artificial civilities which half strangle half the
world with a sort of floss-silk insincerity; and the longer I live the more convinced I am
that real tenderness to others is quite compatible with the truth that is due to them and one's
self.

My regard for you does not maintain itself upon our scanty and infrequent correspondence, but
on the recollection of your kindness to me, and the impression our former intercourse has left
upon my memory; and though ceasing to receive your letters would be foregoing an enjoyment,
it could not affect the grateful regard I entertain for you. Pray, therefore, my dear Lady
Dacre, do not scruple to bid me hold my peace, if by taking up your time and attention in your
present sad circumstances [the recent loss of her daughter] I disturb or distress you.

Your kind wishes for my health and happiness are as completely fulfilled as such benedictions
may be in this world of imperfect bodies and minds. I ride every day before breakfast, some
ten or twelve miles (yesterday it was five and twenty), and as this obliges me to be in my
saddle at seven in the morning, I am apt to consider the performance meritorious as well as
pleasurable. (Who says that early risers always have a Pharisaical sense of their own superiority?)
I am staying in the beautiful hill-region of Massachusetts, where I generally spend part of
my summer, in the neighborhood of my friends the Sedgwicks, who are a very numerous clan, and
compose the chief part of the population of this portion of Berkshire, if not in quantity,
certainly in quality.

There was some talk, at one time, of my going to the hot sulphur springs of Virginia; but the
difficulties of the journey thither, and miseries of a sojourn there, prevented my doing so,
as I could not have taken my children with me. We shall soon begin to think of flying southward,
for we are to winter in Georgia again....

My youngest child does not utter so much as a syllable, which circumstance has occasioned me
once or twice seriously to consider whether by any possibility a child of mine could be dumb.
"I cannot tell, but I think not," as Benedict says. It would have been clever of me to have
had a dumb child.

Have you read Charles Murray's book about America? and how do you like it? Do you ever see
Lady Francis Egerton nowadays? How is she? What is she doing? Is she accomplishing a great
deal with her life? She always seemed to me born to do so. My dear Lady Dacre, do not talk
of not seeing me again. We hope to be in England next autumn, and one of the greatest pleasures
I look forward to in that expectation is once more seeing you and Lord Dacre. You say my sister
will marry a foreigner. She has my leave to marry a German, but the more southern blood does
not mingle well with our Teutonic race....

I am sorry the only book of Catharine Sedgwick's which you have read is, "Live and Let Live,"
because it is essentially an American book, and some Americans think it a little exaggerated
in its views, even for this country. A little story, called "Home," and another called "The
Poor Rich Man and the Rich Poor Man," are, I think, better specimens of what she can do....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                            LENOX, September 30th, 1839.

And so, dearest Harriet, Cecilia writes you that my head is enlarged, my benevolence and causality
increased, and that Mr. Combe thinks me much improved. Truly, it were a pity if I were the
reverse, for it was more than two years since he had seen me; but though I heartily wish this
might be the case, I honestly confess to you that I do not feel as if my mental and moral progress,
during the last two years, has been sufficient to push out any visible augmentation of the
"bumps" of my skull in any direction.

Your saucy suggestion as to my having conciliated his good opinion by exhibiting a greater
degree of faith in phrenology is, unluckily, not borne out by the facts; for, instead of more,
I have a little less faith in it; and that, perversely enough, from the very circumstance of
the more favorable opinion thus expressed with regard to my own "development."

In the first instance, both Mr. Combe and Cecilia expressed a good deal of surprise to some
of my friends here, at their high estimate of my brain.... Having very evidently never themselves
perceived any sufficient grounds for such an exalted esteem. Moreover, Mr. Combe wrote a letter
to Lucretia Mott (the celebrated Quakeress, who is a good friend of mine), when he heard that
she had made my acquaintance, cautioning her against falling into the mistake which all my
American friends committed, of "exaggerating my reasoning powers." This was all well and good,
and only amused me as rather funny; some of my American friends being tolerably shrewd folk,
and upon the whole, no bad judges of brains. But then the next thing that happens is, that
I see the Combes myself for a short, hurried, and most confused five minutes, during which,
even if Mr. Combe's judgment were entirely in his eyes, he had no leisure for exercising it
on me; and yet he now states (for Cecy is only his echo in this matter) that my disposition
is much improved, and my reasoning powers much increased; and it is but two years since I was
in his house, and this moral and mental progress, visible to the naked eye, on my thickly hair-roofed
cranium, has taken place since then;--if so, so much the better for me, and I have made better
use of my time than I imagined!

To tell you the truth, dear Harriet, I have not thought about phrenology, one way or the other,
but I have thought this phrenological verdict about myself nonsense.

Mr. Combe has certainly not been influenced by any signs of conversion on my part; but I suppose
he may have been influenced by the opinion held of me by my friends here, some of whom are
sensible enough on all other subjects not to be suspected of idiocy, even though they do think
me a rational, and, what is more, a reasoning creature.

It has been a real distress to me not to see more of Mr. Combe and Cecilia. I have always had
the highest regard for him, for his kind, humane heart, and benevolent, liberal, enlightened
mind. Cecy, too, during my short visit to her in Scotland, appeared to me a far more lovable
person than during my previous intercourse with her: and as kinsfolk and countryfolk, without
any consideration for personal liking, I feel annoyed at not being able to offer them any kindness
or hospitality. But we literally seem to be running round each other; they are now at Hartford,
in Connecticut, not fifty miles away from here, where they intend staying some weeks, and will
probably not be in Philadelphia until we have departed for the South. When I saw them in New
York, they were both looking extremely well; Cecilia fat, and cheerful, and apparently very
happy, in spite of her "incidents of American travel." ...

The heat of the summer while we remained at Butler Place was something quite indescribable,
and hardly varied at all for several weeks, either night or day, from between 90 and 100 degrees.

We tried to sleep upon everything in vain,--Indian matting was as hot as woolen blankets. At
last I laid a piece of oilcloth on my bed, without even as much as a sheet over it, and though
I could not sleep, obtained as much relief from the heat as to be able to lie still. It was
terrible!...

I have been for two months up here, not having been allowed to go to the Virginia springs,
on account of the difficulty of carrying my children there; but I am promised that we shall
all go there next summer, when there is to be something like a passable road, by which the
health-giving region may be approached....

I have an earnest desire to return to Europe in the autumn--not to stay in England, unless
my father should be there, but to go to him, wherever he may be, and to spend a little time
with my sister.... All this, however, lies far ahead, and God knows what at present invisible
prospects may reveal and develop themselves on the surface of the future, as a nearer light
falls on it....

My youngest child's accomplishments are hitherto unaccompanied by a syllable of speech or utterance,
and the idea sometimes occurs to me whether a child of mine could have enough genius to be dumb.

Good-bye, my dearest Harriet.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                       BUTLER PLACE, October 10th, 1839.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

Your interesting letter of 26th July reached me about ten days ago, at Lenox, where, according
to my wont, I was passing the hot months. I had heard from dear Mr. Harness, a short time before,
that you had suffered much annoyance from the withdrawal of your father's pension. Your own
account of the disasters of your family excited my sincere sympathy; and yet, after reflecting
a little, it appeared to me as if the exertions you felt yourself called upon to make in their
behalf were happier in themselves than the general absence of any immediate object in life,
which I know you sometimes feel very bitterly. At any rate, to be able to serve, effectually
to save from distress, those so dear to you, must be in itself a real happiness; and to be
blessed by your parents and sisters as their stay and support in such a crisis, is to have
had such an opportunity of concentrating your talents as I think one might be thankful for.
I cannot, consistently with my belief, say I am sorry you have thus suffered, but I pray God
that your troubles may every way prove blessings to you.

Your account of your "schoolmaster's party" interested me very much. [A gathering of teachers,
promoted by Lady Byron, for purposes of enlightened benevolence.] Lady Byron must be a woman
of a noble nature. I hope she is happy in her daughter's marriage. I heard a report a short
time ago that Lady Lovelace was coming over to this country with her husband. I could not well
understand for what purpose: that he should come from general interest and curiosity about
the United States, I can well imagine; but that she should come from any motive, but to avoid
being separated from her husband, is to me inconceivable....

I should like to have seen that play of Mr. Chorley's which you mention to me. He once talked
about it to me. It is absurd to say, but for all its absurdity, I'll say it,--he does not look
to me like a man who could write a good play: he speaks too softly, and his eyelashes are too
white; in spite of all which, I take your word for it that it is good. You ask after mine:
Harriet has got the only copy, on the other side of the water; if you think it worth while
to ask her for it, you are very welcome to read it. I was not aware that I had read you any
portion of it; and cannot help thinking that you have confounded in your recollection something
which I did read you--and which, as I thought, appeared to distress you, or rather not to please
you--with some portion of my play, of which I did not think that I had ever shown you any part.
I have some thoughts of publishing it here, or rather in Boston. I have run out my yearly allowance
of pin-money, and want a few dollars very badly, and if any bookseller will give me five pounds
for it, he shall be welcome to it....

I beg you will not call this a scrap of a letter, because it is all written upon one sheet:
if you do, I shall certainly call yours a letter of scraps, being written on several; and am ever,

                              Very truly yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                       BUTLER PLACE, October 19th, 1839.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I have just been reading over a letter of yours written from Schwalbach, in August; and in
answer to some speculation of mine, which I have forgotten, you say, "Our birth truly is no
less strange than our death. The beginning--and whence come we? The end--and whither go we?"
Now, I presume that you did not intend that I should apply myself to answer these questions
categorically. You must have thought you were speaking to me, dearest Harriet, and have only
written down the vague cogitations that rose in the shape of queries to your lips, as you read
my letter, which suggested them; opening at the same time, doubtless, a pair of most intensely
sightless eyes, upon the gaming-table of the Cursaal, if it happened to be within range of vision.

For myself, the older I grow the less I feel strength or inclination to speculate. The daily
and hourly duties of life are so indifferently fulfilled by me, that I feel almost rebuked
if my mind wanders either to the far past or future while the present, wherein lies my salvation,
is comparatively unthought of. To tell you the truth, I find in the daily obligations to do
and to suffer which come to my hands, a refuge from the mystery and uncertainty which veil
all before and after life.

For indeed, when the mind sinks bewildered under speculations as to our former fate or future
destinies, the sense of things to be done, of duties to be fulfilled, even the most apparently
trivial in the world, is an unspeakable relief; and though the whole of this existence of ours,
material and spiritual, affords but this one foothold (and it sometimes seems so to me), it
is enough that every hour brings work; and more than enough--all--if that work be but well done.

Thus the beginning and the end trouble me seldom; but the difficulty of dealing rightly with
what is immediately before and around me does trouble me infinitely; but that trouble is neither
uncertainty nor doubt.

Our possible separation hereafter from those we have loved here, is almost the only idea connected
with these subjects which obtrudes itself sometimes upon my mind. Yet, though I cannot conceive
how Heaven would not be Hell without those I love, I am willing to believe that my spirit will
be fitted to its future sphere by Him with whom all things are possible.

It seems rationally consistent with all we believe, and the little we know, to entertain a
strong hope that the affections we have cherished here will not be left behind us, or forgotten
elsewhere; but I would give much to believe this as well as to hope it, and those are quite
distinct things.

Two conclusions spring from this wide waste of uncertainty; that the more we can serve and
render happy those with whom our lives are bound up here, the better; for we may not elsewhere
be allowed to minister to them: and the less we cling to these earthly affections, the less
we grasp them as sources of personal happiness the better; as they may be withdrawn from us,
and God, whose place they too often usurp in our souls, be the one Friend who shall supply
the place of them all.

Conjecture as we may, however, upon these subjects, the general experience of humanity is that
of struggle with the present, the actual; and could I but be satisfied with the mode in which
I fulfill my daily duties, and govern my heart and mind in their discharge, I should feel at
peace as regards all such speculations--"I'd jump the life to come."

You speak of the unhealthy life led by the members of the bar in Ireland, and their disregard
of all the "natural laws," which yet, you say, does not appear to affect their constitutions
materially. I presume, as far as the usual exercise of their profession goes, lawyers must
lead pretty much the same sort of life everywhere; but in this country, everybody's habits
are essentially unhealthy, and superadded to the special bad influences of a laborious and
sedentary profession, make fearful havoc with life. The diet and the atmosphere to which most
Americans accustom themselves, are alike destructive of anything like health. Even the men,
compared with ours, are generally inactive, and have no idea of taking regular exercise as
a salutary precaution. The absence of social enjoyment among the wealthier classes, and of
cheerful recreation among the artisan and laboring part of the population, leaves them absorbed
in a perpetual existence of care and exertion, varied only by occasional outbursts of political
excitement; indeed, they appear to prefer a life of incessant toil to any other, and they seem
to consider any species of amusement or recreation as a simple waste of time, taking no account
of the renovation of health, strength, and spirits to be gained by diversion and leisure. All
that travelers have said about their neglect of physical health is true; and you will have
additional evidence furnished upon this subject, I believe, by Mr. Combe, who intends publishing
his American experiences, and who will probably do full justice to the perpetual infraction
of his ever-present and sacred rules of life, by the people of the United States....

Expostulations with people with regard to their health are never wise--they who most need such
admonition are least likely to accept it; and, indeed, how many of us learn anything but from
personal suffering? which too often, alas, comes too late to teach. I suppose, it is only the
exceeding wise who are taught anything even by their own experience; to expect the foolish
to learn by that of others, is to be one of their number....

Experience is God's teaching; and I think the seldomer one interferes between children and
that best of teachers, the better. I think it would be well if we oftener let them follow their
wills to their consequences; for these are always just, but they are sometimes, according to
our judgments, too severe; and so we not seldom, out of cowardice, interpose between our children
and the teaching of experience; and substitute, because we will not see them suffer, our own
authority for the inestimable instruction of consequences.

I do not think I agree with you about the very early cultivation of the reasoning powers, but
have left myself no room for further educational disquisition.

Farewell, dear.

                              Believe me, ever yours affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                           PHILADELPHIA, December, 1839.
  MY DEAR T----,

The expression of one's sympathy can never, whatever its sincerity, be of the value it would
have possessed if uttered when first excited. In this, above all things, "they give twice who
give quickly." I feel this very much in writing to you now upon the events which have lately
so deeply troubled the current of your life--your good father's death, and the birth of your
second baby, together with the threatened calamity from which its mother's recovery has spared
you. Tardy as are these words, my sympathy has been sincerely yours during this your season
of trial; and though I have done myself injustice in not sooner writing to you, believe me
I have felt more for you and yours than any letter could express, though I had written it the
moment the news reached me....

That your father died as full of honor as of years, that his life was a task well fulfilled,
and his death not unbecoming so worthy a life, is matter of consolation to you, and all who
knew and loved him less than you. I scarce know how you could have wished any other close to
his career; the pang of losing such a friend you could not expect to escape, but there was
hardly a circumstance (as regarded your father himself) which it seems to me you can regret.
Poor M---- will be the bitterest sufferer [the lady was traveling in Europe at the time of
her father's death], and for her, indeed, my compassion is great, strengthened as it is by
my late experience, and constant apprehension of a similar affliction,--I mean my mother's
death, and the dread of hearing, from across this terrible barrier, that I have lost my father.
I pity her more than I can express; but trust that she will find strength adequate to her need.

Give my kindest love to your wife. I rejoice in her safety for your sake and that of her children,
more even than for her own; for it always seems well to me with those who have gone to rest,
but her loss would have been terrible for you, and her girl has yet to furnish her some work,
and some compensation....

If Anne is with you, remember me very kindly to her, and

                              Believe me ever most truly yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The little daughter referred to in the above letter became Mrs.
    Charles Norton, one of the loveliest and most charming of young
    American women, snatched by an untimely death from the midst of an
    adoring family and friends.]

                              PHILADELPHIA, Friday, December 14th, 1839.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

... It is perhaps well for you that this letter has suffered an interruption here, as had this
not been the case you might have been edified with a yet further "complaint." ...

We have shut up our house in the country, and are at present staying in Philadelphia, at my
brother-in-law's; but we are expecting every day to start for the plantation in Georgia, where
I hope we are to find what is yet lacking to us in health and strength.

I look forward with some dismay now to this expedition, in the middle of winter, with two young
children, traveling by not very safe railroads and perhaps less safe steamboats, through that
half-savage country, and along that coast only some months ago the scene of fearful shipwreck....
I have already written you word of our last residence there, of the small island in the Altamaha
and below its level--the waters being only kept out by dykes, which protect the rice-marshes,
of which the plantation is composed, from being submerged. The sole inhabitants, you know,
are the negroes, who cultivate the place, and the overseer who manages them.... As early as
March the heat becomes intense, and by the beginning of April it is no longer safe for white
people to remain there, owing to the miasma which exhales from the rice-fields....

We shall find, no doubt, our former animal friends, from the fleas up to the alligators: the
first, swarming in the filthy negroes' huts; the last, expatiating in the muddy waters of the
Altamaha. I trust they will none of them have forgotten us. Did I tell you before of those
charming creatures, the moccasin snakes, which, I have just been informed, abound in every
part of the southern plantations? Rattlesnakes I know by sight: but the moccasin creature,
though I may have seen him, I do not feel acquainted, or at any rate familiar, with. Our nearest
civilized town, you know, is Savannah, and that is sixty miles off. I cannot say that the expedition
is in any way charming to me, but the alternative is remaining alone here; and, as it is possible
to live on the plantation with the children, I am going. Margery, of course, comes with me....

Did I tell you, my dear Irishwoman, that we had no potatoes on the plantation, and that Indian
meal holds the place of wheaten flour, bread baked of the latter being utterly unknown?...
Do not be surprised if I dwell upon these small items of privation, even now that I am about
to go among those people the amelioration of whose condition I have considered as one of my
special duties. With regard to this, however, I have, alas! no longer the faintest shadow of
hope....

                              Yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                       PHILADELPHIA, January 15th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

My last to you was dated the fourteenth of December, and it is now the tenth of January, a
whole month; and you and Dorothy are, I presume, sundered, instead of together, and surrounded
with ice and snow, and all wintry influences, instead of those gentle southern ones in which
you had imagined you would pass the dismal season.

I can fancy Ardgillan comfortably poetical (if that is not a contradiction in terms) at this
time of year, with its warm, bright, cheerful drawing-room looking out on the gloomy sea. But
perhaps you are none of you there?--perhaps you are in Dublin?--on Mr. Taylor's new estate?--or
where--where, dear Harriet--where are you? How sad it seems to wander thus in thought after
those we love, and conjecture of their whereabouts almost as vaguely as of the dwelling of
the dead!...

I am annoyed by the interruption which all this ice and snow causes in my daily rides. My horse
is rough-shod, and I persist in going out on him two or three times a week, but not without
some peril, and severe inconvenience from the cold, which not only cuts my face to pieces,
but chaps my skin from head to foot, through my riding-dress and all my warm under-clothing.
I do not much regret our prolonged sojourn in the North, on my children's account, who, being
both hearty and active creatures, thrive better in this bracing climate than in the relaxing
temperature of the South....

Dear Harriet, I have nothing to tell you; my life externally is nothing; and who can tell the
inward history of their bosom--that internal life, which is often so strangely unlike the other?
Suppose I inform you that I have just come home from a ride of an hour and a half; that I went
out of the city by Broad Street, and returned by Islington Lane and the Ridge Road--how much
the wiser will you be? that the roads were frozen as hard as iron, and here and there so sheeted
with ice that I had great difficulty in preventing my horse from slipping and falling down
with me, and, being quite alone, without even a servant, I wondered what I should do if he
did. I have a capital horse, whom I have christened Forester, after the hero of my play, and
who grins with delight, like a dog, when I talk to him and pat him. He is a bright bay, with
black legs and mane, tall and large, and built like a hunter, with high courage and good temper.
I have had him four years, and do not like to think what would become of me if anything were
to happen to him. It would be necessary that I should commit suicide, for his fellow is not
to be found in "these United States." Dearest Harriet, we hope to come over to England next
September; and if your sister will invite me, I will come and see you some time before I re-cross
the Atlantic. I am very anxious about my father, and still more anxious about my sister, and
feel heart-weary for the sight of some of my own people, places, and things; and so. Fate prospering,
to speak heathen, I shall go home once more in the autumn of this present 1840: till when,
dearest Harriet, God bless you! and after then, and always,

                              I am ever your affectionate,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [My dear horse, having been sold to a livery-stable keeper, I
    repurchased him by the publication of a small volume of poems, which
    thus proved themselves to me excellent verses. The gallant animal
    broke his hip-joint by slipping in a striding gallop over some wet
    planks, and I had to have him shot. His face--I mean the anguish in
    it after the accident--is among the tragical visions in my memory.]

                                       PHILADELPHIA, February 9th, 1840.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

... You ask me if I have read your book on Canada. With infinite interest and pleasure, and
great sympathy and admiration, and much gratitude for the vindication of women's capabilities,
both physical and mental, which all your books (but this perhaps more than all the others) furnish.

It has been, like all your previous works, extremely popular here; and if you have received
no remuneration for it, you are not justly dealt by, as I am sure its sale has been very considerable,
and very profitable. [Mrs. Jameson was, undoubtedly, one of the greatest sufferers by the want
of an author's copyright in America: her works were all republished there; and her laborious
literary career, her careful research and painstaking industry, together with her restricted
means and the many claims upon them, made it a peculiar hardship, in her case, to be deprived
of the just reward of the toil by which she gave pleasure and instruction to so many readers
in America, as well as in her own country.] Your latest publication, "Social Life in Germany,"
I have not seen, but have read numerous extracts from it, in the American literary periodicals.

You ask me if you can "do anything" about my play? I thought I must have told you of my offering
it to Macready, who civilly declined having anything to do with it. Circumstances induced me
to destroy my own copy of it: the one Macready had is in Harriet's custody, another copy I
have given to Elizabeth Sedgwick, and I now neither know nor care anything more about it. Once
upon a time I wrote it, and that is quite enough to have had to do with it. Prescott, the historian
of Ferdinand and Isabella, is urgent with me to let him have it published in Boston; perhaps
hereafter, if I should want a penny, and be able to turn an honest one by so doing, I may.

It is odd that I have not the remotest recollection of reading any of that play to you. You
have mentioned it several times to me, and I have never been able to recall to my mind, either
when I read it to you, or what portion of it I inflicted upon you. You were lucky, and I wonder
that I let you off with a portion of it; for, for nearly a year after I finished it, I was
in such ecstasies with my own performance, that I martyrized every soul that had a grain of
regard for me, with its perusal....

J---- B---- and his brother have just started for Georgia, leaving his wife and myself in forlorn
widowhood, which, (the providence of railroads and steamboats allowing) is not to last more
than three months. I have been staying nearly three months in their house in town, expecting
every day to depart for the plantation; but we have procrastinated to such good effect that
the Chesapeake Bay is now unnavigable, being choked up with ice, and the other route involving
seventy miles of night traveling on the worst road in the United States (think what that means!),
it has been judged expedient that the children and myself should remain behind. I am about,
therefore, to return with them to the Farm, where I shall pass the remainder of the winter,--how,
think you? Why, reading Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," which I have never read yet, and which
I now intend to study with classical atlas, Bayle's dictionary, the Encyclopædia, and all sorts
of "aids to beginners." How quiet I shall be! I think perhaps I may die some day, without so
much as being aware of it; and if so, beg to record myself in good season, before that imperceptible
event,

                              Yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                      BUTLER PLACE, February 16th, 1840.

I have just been looking over a letter of yours, dearest Harriet, as old as the 19th of last
September, describing your passage over the Splügen. About four days ago I was looking over
some engravings of the passes of the Alps, in a work called "Switzerland Illustrated," by Bartlett,
and lingered over those attempts of human art with the longing I have for those lands, which
I always had, which has never died away entirely, but seems now reviving again in some of its
earliest strength: I can compare it to nothing but the desire of thirst for water, and I must
master it as I may, for of those mountain-streams I fear I never shall drink, or look upon
their beauty, but in the study of my imagination.

In the hill-country of Berkshire, Massachusetts, where I generally spend some part of the summer
among my friends the Sedgwicks, there is a line of scenery, forming part of the Green Mountain
range, which runs up into the State of Vermont, and there becomes a noble brotherhood of mountains,
though in the vicinity of Stockbridge and Lenox, where I summer, but few of them deserve a
more exalted title than hill. They are clothed with a various forest of oak, beech, chestnut,
maple, and fir; and down their sides run wild streams, and in the valleys between them lie
exquisite lakes. Upon the whole, it is the most picturesque scenery I have ever seen; particularly
in the neighborhood of a small town called Salisbury, thirty miles from Lenox. This is situated
in a plain surrounded by mountains, and upon the same level in its near neighborhood lie four
beautiful small lakes; close above this valley rises Mount Washington, or, as some Swiss charcoal-burners,
who have emigrated thither, have christened it, Mount Rhigi.

In a recess of this mountain lies a deep ravine and waterfall; and a precipice, where an arch
of rock overhangs a basin, where, many hundred feet below, the water boils in a mad cauldron,
and then plunges away, by leaps of forty, twenty, and twelve feet, with the intermediate runs
necessary for such jumps, through a deep chasm in the rocks, to a narrow valley, the whole
character of which, I suppose, may represent Swiss scenery in very small.

A week ago J---- B---- and ---- left Philadelphia for the South; and yesterday I received a
letter giving a most deplorable account of their progress, if progress it could be called,
which consisted in going nine miles in four hours, and then returning to Washington, whence
they had started, the road being found utterly impassable. Streams swollen with the winter
snows and spring rains, with their bridges all broken up by the ice or swept away by the water,
intersect these delightful ways; and one of these, which could not admit of fording, turned
them back, to try their fate in a steamboat, through the ice with which the Chesapeake is blocked
up. This dismal account has in some measure reconciled me to having been left behind with the
children; they have neither of them been as well as usual this winter, and the season is now
so far advanced, our intended departure being delayed from day to day for three months, that,
besides encountering a severe and perilous journey, we should have arrived in Georgia to find
the weather almost oppressively hot, and, if we did wisely, to return again, at the end of
a fortnight, to the North.

I have come back to Butler Place with the bairns, and have resumed the monotonous tenor of
my life, which this temporary residence in town had interrupted, not altogether agreeably;
and here I shall pass the rest of the winter, teaching S---- to read, and sliding through my
days in a state of external quietude, which is not always as nearly allied to content as it
might seem to (ought to) be....

When the children's bed-time comes, and their little feet and voices are still, the spirit
of the house seems to have fallen asleep. I send my servants to bed, for nobody here keeps
late hours (ten o'clock being considered late), and, in spite of assiduous practicing, reading,
and answering of letters, my evenings are sad in their absolute solitude, and I am glad when
ten o'clock comes, the hour for my retiring, which I could often find in my heart to anticipate....

I have taken vehemently to worsted-work this winter, and, instead of a novel or two, am going
to read Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," which I have never read, and by means
of Bayle, classical atlas, and the Encyclopædia, I mean to make a regular school-room business
of it.

Good-bye, dear. Events are so lacking in my present existence, that I am longing for the spring
as I never did before--for the sight of leaves and flowers, and the song of birds, and the
daily development of the great natural pageant of the year. I am grateful to God for nothing
more than the abundant beauty with which He has adorned His creation. The pleasure I derive
from its contemplation has survived many others, and should I live long, will, I think, outlive
all that I am now capable of....

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                      BUTLER PLACE, February 17th, 1840.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

... I believe too implicitly in your interest in me and mine, ever to have nothing to say to
you; but my sayings will be rather egotistical, for the monotony of my life affords me few
interests but those which centre in my family, the head of which left me ten days ago, with
his brother, for their southern estate. I have since had a letter, which, as it affords an
accurate picture of winter traveling in this country, would, I flatter myself, make your sympathetic
hair stand on end. Listen. On Sunday morning, before day, they set out, two post-coaches, with
four horses, each carrying eight passengers. They got to Alexandria, which is close to Washington,
whence they started without difficulty, stopped a short time to gird up their loins and take
breath, and at seven o'clock set off. It rained hard; the road was deep with mud, and very
bad; several times the passengers were obliged to get out of the coach and walk through the
rain and mud, the horses being unable to drag the load through such depths of mire. They floundered
on, wading through mud and fording streams, until eleven o'clock, when they stopped to breakfast,
having come but eight miles in four hours. They consulted whether to go on or turn back: the
majority ruled to go on; so after breakfast they again took the road, but had proceeded but
one mile when it became utterly impassable--the thaw and rain had so swelled a stream that
barred the way that it was too deep to ford; and when it was quite apparent that they must
either turn back or be drowned, they reluctantly adopted the former course, and got back to
Washington late in the evening, having passed nearly all day in going nine miles. I think you
will agree with me, my dear Lady Dacre, that my children and myself were well out of that party
of pleasure; though the very day before the party set off it was still uncertain whether we
should not accompany them.

The contrary having been determined, I am now very quietly spending the winter with my chickens
at the Farm.... An imaginative nature makes, it is true, happiness as well as unhappiness for
itself, but finds inevitable ready made disappointment in the mere realities of life.... I
make no excuse for talking "nursery" to you, my dear Lady Dacre. These are my dearest occupations;
indeed, I might say, my only ones.

Have you looked into Marryatt's books on this country? They are full of funny stories, some
of them true stories enough, and some, little imitation Yankee stories of the captain's own.

Do explain to me what Sydney Smith means by disclaiming Peter Plymley's letters as he does?
Surely he did write them.

This very youthful nation of the United States is "carrying on," to use their own favorite
phrase, in a most unprecedented manner. Their mercantile and financial experiments have been
the dearest of their kind certainly; and the confusion, embarrassment, and difficulty, in consequence
of these experiments, are universal. Money is scarce, credit is scarcer, but, nevertheless,
they will not lay the lesson to heart. The natural resources of the country are so prodigious,
its wealth so enormous, so inexhaustible, that it will be presently up and on its feet again
running faster than ever to the next stumbling-post. Moral bankruptcy is what they have to
fear, much more than failure of material riches. It is a strange country, and a strange people;
and though I have dear and good friends among them, I still feel a stranger here, and fear
I shall continue to do so until I die, which God grant I may do at home! i.e., in England.

Give my kindest remembrance to Lord Dacre. We hope to be in England in September, and I shall
come and see you as soon as ever I can.

                    Believe me ever, my dear Lady Dacre,
                              Yours affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                          BUTLER PLACE, March 1st, 1840.

Thank you, my dearest Harriet, for your extract from my sister's letter to you.... The strongest
of us are insufficient to ourselves in this life, and if we will not stretch out our hands
for help to our fellows, who, for the most part, are indeed broken reeds and quite as often
pierce as support us, we needs must at last stretch them out to God; and doubtless these occasions,
bitter as they may seem, should be accounted blest, which make the poor proud human soul discover
its own weakness and God's all-sufficiency....

My winter--or rather, what remains of it--is like to pass in uninterrupted quiet and solitude;
and you will probably have the satisfaction of receiving many short letters from me, for I
know not where I shall find the material for long ones. To be sure, S----'s sayings and F----'s
looks might furnish me with something to say, but I have a dread of beginning to talk about
my children, for fear I should never leave off, for that is apt to be a "story without an end."

I hear they are going to bestow upon my father, on his return to England, a silver vase, valued
at several hundred pounds. I am base-minded, dear Harriet, grovelling, and sordid; and were
I he, would rather have a shilling's worth of honor, and the rest of the vase in hard cash:
but he has lived his life upon this sort of thing, and I think with great pleasure of the great
pleasure it will give him. I am very well, and always most affectionately yours,

                                                                F. A. B.

                                         BUTLER PLACE, March 12th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

It is only a few days since I received your letter with the news of Mr. F----'s attack, from
which it is but natural to apprehend that he may not recover.... The combination of the loss
of one's father, and of the home of one's whole life, is indeed a severe trial; though in this
case, the one depending on the other, and Mr. F----'s age being so advanced, Emily with her
steadfast mind has probably contemplated the possibility of this event, and prepared herself
for it, as much as preparation may be made against affliction, which, however long looked for,
when it comes always seems to bring with it some unforeseen element of harsh surprise. We never
can imagine what will happen to us, precisely as it does happen to us; and overlook in anticipation,
not only minute mitigations, but small stings of aggravation, quite incalculable till they
are experienced.... I could cry to think that I shall never again see the flowerbeds and walks
and shrubberies of Bannisters. I think there is something predominantly material in my nature,
for the sights and sounds of outward things have always been my chiefest source of pleasure;
and as I grow older this in nowise alters; so little so, that gathering the first violets of
the spring the other morning, it seemed to me that they were things to love almost more than
creatures of my own human kind. I do not believe I am a normal human being; and at my death,
only half a soul will pass into a spiritual existence, the other half will go and mingle with
the winds that blow, and the trees that grow, and the waters that flow, in this world of material
elements....

Do I remember Widmore, you ask me. Yes, truly.... I remember the gay colors of the flowerbeds,
and the fine picturesque trees in the garden, and the shady quietness of the ground-floor rooms....

You ask me how I have replaced Margery. Why, in many respects, if indeed not in all, very indifferently;
but I could not help myself. Her leaving me was a matter of positive necessity, and some things
tend to reconcile me to her loss. I believe she would have made S---- a Catholic. The child's
imagination had certainly received a very strong impression from her; and soon after her departure,
as I was hearing S---- her prayers, she begged me to let her repeat that prayer to "the blessed
Virgin," which her nurse had taught her. I consider this a direct breach of faith on the part
of Margery, who had once before undertaken similar instructions in spite of distinct directions
to interfere in no way with the child's religious training.

The proselytizing spirit of her religion was, I suppose, stronger than her conscience, or rather,
was the predominant element in it, as it is in all very devout Catholics; and the opportunity
of impressing my little girl with what she considered vital truth, not to be neglected; and
upon this ground alone I am satisfied that it is better she should have left me, for though
it would not mortally grieve me if hereafter my child were conscientiously to embrace Romanism,
I have no desire that she should be educated in what I consider erroneous views upon the most
momentous of all subjects.

I have been more than once assured, on good authority, that it is by no means an infrequent
practice of the Roman Catholic Irish women employed as nurses in American families, to carry
their employers' babies to their own churches and have them baptized, of course without consent
or even knowledge of their parents. The secret baptism is duly registered, and the child thus
smuggled into the pope's fold, never, if possible, entirely lost sight of by the priest who
administered the regenerating sacrament to it. The saving of souls is an irresistible motive,
especially when the saving of one's own is much facilitated by the process.

The woman I have in Margery's place is an Irish Protestant, a very good and conscientious girl,
but most wofully ignorant, and one who murders our luckless mother-tongue after a fashion that
almost maddens me. However, as with some cultivation, education, reading, reflection, and that
desire to do what is best that a mother alone can feel for her own child, I cannot but be conscious
of my own inability in all points to discharge this great duty, the inability of my nursery-maid
does not astonish or dismay me. The remedy for the nurse's deficiencies must be in me, and
the remedy for mine in God, to whose guidance I commit myself and my darlings.... Margery was
very anxious to remain with me as my maid; but we have reduced our establishment, and I have
no longer any maid of my own, therefore I could not keep her....

With regard to attempting to make "reason the guide of your child's actions," that, of course,
must be a very gradual process, and may, in my opinion, be tried too early. Obedience is the
first virtue of which a young child is capable, the first duty it can perform; and the authority
of a parent is, I think, the first impression it should receive,--a strictly reasonable and
just claim, inasmuch as, furnishing my child with all its means of existence, as well as all
its amusements and enjoyments, regard for my requests is the proper and only return it can
make in the absence of sufficient judgment, to decide upon their propriety, and the motives
by which they are dictated.

Good-bye, dearest Harriet.

                              I am ever affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                         BUTLER PLACE, March 16th, 1840.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

It was with infinite pain that I received your last letter [a very unfavorable report, almost
a sentence of death, had been pronounced by the physicians upon my friend's dearest friend,
Miss Dorothy Wilson], and yet I know not, except your sorrow, what there is so deplorable in
the fact that Dorothy, who is one of the living best prepared for death, should have received
a summons, which on first reading of it shocked me so terribly.

We calculate most blindly, for the most part, in what form the call to "change our life" may
be least unwelcome; but to one whose eyes have long been steadily fixed upon that event, I
do not believe the manner of their death signifies much.

Pain, our poor human bodies shrink from; and yet it has been endured, almost as if unfelt,
not only in the triumphant death of the mob-hunted martyr, but in the still, lonely, and, by
all but God, unseen agony of the poor and humble Christian, in those numerous cases where persecution
indeed was not, but the sorrowful trial of the neglect and careless indifference of their fellow-beings,
the total absence of all sympathy--a heavy desolation whether in life or death.

I have just lost a friend, Dr. Follen, a man to whose character no words of mine could do justice.
He has been publicly mourned from more than one Christian pulpit; and Dr. Channing, in a discourse
after his death, has spoken of him as one whom "many thought the most perfect man they ever
knew." Among those many I was one. I have never seen any one whom I revered, loved, and admired
more than I did Dr. Follen. He perished, with above a hundred others, in a burning steam-boat,
on the Long Island Sound; at night, and in mid-winter, the freezing waters affording no chance
of escape to the boldest swimmer or the most tenacious clinger to existence. He perished in
the very flower of vigorous manhood, cut off in the midst of excellent usefulness, separated,
for the first time, from a most dearly loved wife and child, who were prevented from accompanying
him by sickness. In a scene of indescribable terror, confusion, and dismay, that noble and
good man closed his life; and all who have spoken of him have said, "Could one have seen his
countenance, doubtless it was to the last the mirror of his serene and steadfast spirit;" and
for myself, after the first shock of hearing of that awful calamity, I could only think it
mattered not how or where that man met his death. He was always near to God, and who can doubt
that, in that scene of apparent horror and despair, God was very near to him?

Even so, my dearest Harriet, do I now think of the impending fate of Dorothy; but oh, the difference
between the sudden catastrophe in the one case, and the foreknowledge granted in the other!
Time, whose awful uses our blind security so habitually forgets, is granted to her, with its
inestimable value marked on it by the finger of death, undimmed by the busy hands of earthly
pursuits and interests; she has, and will have, her dearest friends and lovers about her to
the very end; and I know of no prayer that I should frame for her, but exemption from acute
pain. For you, my dearest Harriet, if pain and woe and suffering are appointed you, it is to
some good purpose, and you may make it answer its best ends.

These seem almost cold-hearted words, and yet God knows from how warm a heart, full of love
and aching with sympathy, I write them! But sorrow is His angel, His minister, His messenger
who does His will, waiting upon our souls with blessed influences. My only consolation, in
thinking upon your affliction, is to remember that all events are ordered by our Father, and
to reflect, as I often do----

I had written thus far, dearest Harriet, when a miserable letter from Georgia came to interrupt
me. How earnestly, in the midst of the tears through which I read it, I had to recall those
very thoughts, in my own behalf, which I was just urging upon you, you can imagine....

We may not choose our own discipline; but happy are they who are called to suffer themselves,
rather than to see those they love do so!...

My head aches, and my eyes ache, and my heart aches, and I cannot muster courage to write any
more. God bless you, my dearest Harriet. Remember me most affectionately to dear Dorothy, and

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Dr. Charles Follen, known in his own country as Carl Follenius,
    became an exile from it for the sake of his political convictions,
    which in his youth he had advocated with a passionate fervor that
    made him, even in his college days, obnoxious to its governing
    authorities. He wrote some fine spirited Volkslieder that the
    students approved of more than the masters; and was so conspicuous
    in the vanguard of liberal opinion, that the Vaterland became an
    unwholesome residence for him, and he emigrated to America, where
    all his aspirations towards enlightened freedom found "elbow-room."

    He became an ordained Unitarian preacher; and it was a striking
    tribute to his spirit of humane tolerance as well as to his eloquent
    advocacy of his own high spiritual faith, that he was once earnestly
    and respectfully solicited to give a series of discourses upon
    Christianity, to a society of intelligent men who professed
    themselves dis-believers in it (atheists, materialists, for aught I
    know), inasmuch as from him they felt sure of a powerful, clear, and
    earnest exposition of his own opinions, unalloyed by uttered or
    implied condemnation of them for differing from him. I do not know
    whether Dr. Follen complied with this petition, but I remember his
    saying how much he had been touched by it, and how glad he should be
    to address such a body of mis- or dis-believers. He was a man of
    remarkable physical vigor, and excelled in all feats of strength and
    activity, having, when first he came to Boston, opened a gymnasium
    for the training of the young Harvard scholars in such exercises. He
    had the sensibility and gentleness of a woman, the imagination of a
    poet, and the courage of a hero; a genial kindly sense of humor, and
    buoyant elastic spirit of joyousness, that made him, with his fine
    intellectual and moral qualities, an incomparable friend and teacher
    to the young, for whose rejoicing vitality he had the sympathy of
    fellowship as well as the indulgence of mature age, and whose
    enthusiasm he naturally excited to the highest degree.

    His countenance was the reflection of his noble nature. My
    intercourse with him influenced my life while it lasted, and long
    after his death the thought of what would have been approved or
    condemned by him affected my actions.

    Many years after his death, I was speaking of him to Wæleker, the
    Nestor of German professors, the most learned of German
    philologists, historians, archæologists, and antiquarians, and he
    broke out into enthusiastic praise of Follen, who had been his
    pupil at Jena, and to whose mental and moral worth he bore, with
    deep emotion, a glowing testimony.]

                                         BUTLER PLACE, March 23rd, 1840.

I have just learned, dearest Harriet, that the Censorship [office of licenser of plays] has
been transferred from my father to my brother John, which I am very glad to hear, as I imagine,
though I do not know it, that the death of Mr. Beaumont must have put an end to the existence
of the British and Foreign Review, for which he employed my brother as editor.

If the salary of licenser is an addition to the income attached to his editorship of the Review,
my brother will be placed in comfortable circumstances; and I hope this may prove to be the
case--though ladies are not apt to be so in love with abstract political principles as to risk
certain thousands every year merely to promote their quarterly illustration in a Review, and
I shall not be at all surprised to learn that Mrs. Beaumont declines doing so any longer.

    [Mrs. Wentworth Beaumont, mother of my brother John's friend, must
    have been a woman of very decided political opinions, and very
    liberal views of the value of her convictions--in hard cash. Left
    the widowed mistress of a princely estate in Yorkshire, on the
    occasion when the most passionate contest recorded in modern
    electioneering made it doubtful whether the Government candidate or
    the one whose politics were more in accordance with her own would be
    returned to Parliament, she, then a very old lady, drove in her
    travelling-carriage with four horses to Downing Street, and
    demanding to see the Prime Minister, with whom she was well
    acquainted, accosted him thus: "Well, my lord, are you quite
    determined to make your man stand for our seat?" "Yes, Mrs.
    Beaumont, I think quite determined." "Very well," replied the lady;
    "I am on my way down to Yorkshire, with eighty thousand pounds in
    the carriage for my man. Try and do better than that."

    I am afraid the pros and cons for Woman's Suffrage would alike
    have thought that very expensive female partisan politician hardly
    to be trusted with the franchise. Lord Dacre, who told me that
    anecdote, told me also that on one occasion forty thousand pounds,
    to his knowledge, had been spent by Government on a contested
    election--I think he said at Norwich.] ...

The longer I live, the less I think of the importance of any or all outward circumstances,
and the more important I think the original powers and dispositions of people submitted to
their influence. God has permitted no situation to be exempt from trial and temptation, and
few, if any, to be entirely exempt from good influences and opportunities for using them. The
tumult of the inward creature may exist in the midst of the calmest outward daily life, and
the peace which passeth understanding subsist in the turmoil of the most adverse circumstances....
Our desires tending towards particular objects, we naturally seek the position most favorable
for obtaining them; and, stand where we will, we are still, if we so choose, on the heavenward
road. If we know how barely responsible for what they are many human beings necessarily must
be, how much better does God know it! With many persons, whose position we regret and think
unfortunate for their character, we might have to go far back, and retrace in the awful influence
of inheritance the source of the evils we deplore in them. We need have much faith in the future
to look hopefully at the present, and perfect faith in the mercy of our Father in heaven, who
alone knows how much or how little of His blessed light has reached every soul of us through
precept and example....

You ask me of Margery's successor: she is an honest, conscientious, and most ignorant Irish
Protestant. You cannot conceive of what materials our households are composed here. The Americans,
whose superior intelligence and education make them by far the most desirable servants we could
have, detest the condition of domestic service so utterly, that it is next to impossible to
procure them, and absolutely impossible to retain them above a year. The lowest order of Irish
are the only persons that can be obtained. They offer themselves, and are accepted of hard
necessity, indiscriminately, for any situation in a house, from that of lady's-maid to that
of cook; and, indeed, they are equally unfit for all, having probably never seen so much as
the inside of a decent house till they came to this country. To illustrate--my housemaid is
the sister of my present nursery-maid, and on the occasion of the latter taking her holiday
in town, the other had the temporary charge of the children, and, when first she undertook
it, had to be duly enlightened as to the toilet purposes of a wash-hand basin, a sponge, and
a toothbrush, not one of which had she apparently been familiar with before; and this would
have been the case with a large proportion of the Irish girls who present themselves here to
be engaged as our servants.

Our household has been reduced for some time past, and I have no maid of my own; and when the
nurse is in town I am obliged to forego the usual decency of changing my dress for dinner,
from the utter incapacity of my housemaid to fasten it upon my back. Of course, except tolerably
faithful washing, dressing, and bodily care, I can expect nothing for my children from my present
nurse. She is a very good and pious girl, and though her language is nothing short of heathen
Greek, her sentiments are very much those of a good Christian. This same service is a source
of considerable daily tribulations, and I wish I only improved all my opportunities of practising
patience and forbearance....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                         BUTLER PLACE, March 25th, 1840.
  MY DEAR T----,

I have been reading with infinite interest the case of the Amistad; but understand, from Mrs.
Charles Sedgwick, that there is to be an appeal upon the matter. As, however, the result will,
I presume, be the same, the more publicity the affair obtains, the more it and all kindred
subjects are discussed, spoken of, thought on, and written about, the better for us unfortunate
slaveholders.

I am very much obliged to you for sending me that article on Mr. Jay's book. You know how earnestly
I look to every sign of the approaching termination of this national disgrace and individual
misfortune; and when men of ability and character conscientiously raise their voices against
it, who can be so faint-hearted as not to have faith in its ultimate downfall?

Your very name pledges you in some sort to this cause, and, among your other important duties,
let me (who am now involuntarily implicated in this terrible abuse) beg you to remember that
this one is an inheritance; and for the sake of those, justly honored, who have bequeathed
it to you, discharge it with the ability nature has so bountifully endowed you with, and you
cannot fail to accomplish great good.

In reading your article, I was much reminded of Legget, whose place, it seems to me, there
is none but you to fill.

I have just been interrupted by a letter from Elizabeth, confirming the news of your sister's
return from Europe. I congratulate you heartily upon the termination of your anxieties about
her. Remember me most kindly to her, and to your mother, if my message can be made acceptable
to her in her present affliction, and believe me

                              Ever yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The Amistad was a low raking schooner, conveying between fifty
    and sixty negroes, fresh from Africa, from Havannah to Guamapah,
    Port Principe, to the plantation of one of the passengers. The
    captain and three of the crew were murdered by the negroes. Two
    planters were spared to navigate the vessel back to Africa. Forced
    to steer east all day, these white men steered west and north all
    night; and after two months, coming near New London, the schooner
    was captured by the United States schooner Washington, and carried
    into port, where a trial was held by the Circuit Court at Hertford,
    transferred to the District Court, and sent by appeal to the United
    States Supreme Court. The District Court decreed that one man, not
    of the recent importation, should, by the treaty of 1795 with Spain,
    be restored to his master; the rest, delivered to the President of
    the United States, to be by him transported to their homes in
    Africa.

    Before the case could come before the United States Supreme Court,
    the President (Mr. Van Buren), upon the requisition of the Spanish
    minister, had the negroes conveyed, by the United States schooner
    Grampus, back to Havannah and to slavery, under the treaty of
    1795.

    The case created an immense excitement among the friends and foes of
    slavery. The point made by the counsel for the negroes being that
    they were not slaves, but free Africans, freshly brought to Cuba,
    contrary to the latest enacted laws of Spain. The schooner Amistad
    started on her voyage to Africa in June, 1839, reached New London in
    August, and was sent back in January, 1840.]

                                          BUTLER PLACE, April 5th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I have received both your letters concerning Dorothy's health. The one which you sent by the
British Queen came before one you previously wrote me from Liverpool, and destroyed all the
pleasure I should have received from the cheerful spirit in which the latter was written.

I was reading the other evening a sermon of Dr. Channing's, suggested by the miserable destruction
of a steamboat with the loss of upwards of a hundred lives; among them, one precious to all
who knew him perished, a man who, I think, had few equals, and to whose uncommon character
all who ever knew him bear witness.

The fate of so excellent a human being, cut off in the flower of his age, in the midst of a
career of uncommon worth and usefulness, inspired Dr. Channing, who was his dear friend, with
one of the finest discourses in which Christian faith ever "justified the ways of God to Man."

In reading that eloquent sermon, so full of hope, of trust, of resignation, and rational acknowledgment
of the great purposes of sorrow, my thoughts turned to you, dearest Harriet, and dwelt upon
your present trial, and on the impending loss of your dear friend. I have not the sermon by
me, or I could scarce resist transcribing passages from it; but if you can procure it, do.
It was written on the occasion of the burning of the steamboat Lexington, and in memory of
Dr. Charles Follen.

One of the views that impressed me most, of those urged by Channing, was that sorrow--however
considered by us, individually, as a shocking accident,--in God's providence, was a large part
of the appointed experience of existence: no blot, no jar, no sudden violent visitation of
wrath; but part of the light, and harmony, and order, of our spiritual education; an essential
and invaluable portion of our experience, of infinite importance in our moral training. To
all it is decreed to suffer; through our bodies, through our minds, through our affections,
through the noblest as well as the lowest of our attributes of being. This then, he argues,
which enters so largely into the existence of every living soul, should never be regarded with
an eye of terror, as an appalling liability or a fearful unaccountable disturbance in the course
of our lives.

I suppose it is the rarefied air our spirits breathe on great heights of achievement; as vital
to our moral nature as the pure mountain element, which stimulates our lungs, is to our physical
being. In sorrow, faithfully borne, the glory and the blessing of holiness become hourly more
apparent to us; and it must be good for us to suffer, since our dear Father lays suffering
upon us. If we believe one word of what we daily repeat, and profess to believe, of His mercy
and goodness, we must needs believe that the pain and grief which enter so largely into His
government of and provision for us are all part of His goodness and mercy.... I pray that you,
and I, and all, may learn more and more to accept His will, even as His Son, our perfect pattern,
accepted it....

J---- B---- has already returned home from the South, weary of the heat, and the oppressive
smell of the orange flowers on Butler's Island....

The tranquillity of my outward circumstances has its counterweight m the excitability of my
nature. I think upon the whole, the task and load of life is very equal, its labors and its
burdens very equal: they only have real sorrow who make it for themselves, in their own hearts,
by their own faults; and they only have real joy who make and keep it there by their own effort....

Katharine Sedgwick writes in great disappointment at your not being in Italy this winter, and
so does her niece, my dear little Kate. Those are loving hearts, and most good Christians;
they have been like sisters to me in this strange land; I am gratefully attached to them, and
long for their return. God bless you, dear. Give my affectionate remembrance to Dorothy, and

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                         BUTLER PLACE, April 30th, 1840.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Of course I have begun to die already: which I believe people do as soon as they reach maturity;
at any rate, the process begins, I am sure, much earlier, and is much more gradual and uninterrupted,
than we suppose or are aware of. Most persons, I think, begin to die at about thirty; some
take a longer, and some a shorter time in becoming quite entirely dead, but after that age
I do not believe anybody is quite entirely alive.... Still, though somewhat dead (as I have
most reason to know), to the eyes of most people I am even now an uncommonly lively woman;
and while my soul is at peace, and my spirits cheerful, I am not myself painfully conscious
that I am dying.... The treasure of health was mine in perfection, almost for five and twenty
years, and I do not see that I should have any right to complain that I no longer possess it
as fully as I once did....

You and I have changed places curiously enough, since first we began to hold arguments together;
and it seems as strange that you should disparage reason to me, as the chief instrument of
education, as that I should be upholding it against your disparagement. The longer I live,
the more convinced my reason is of the goodness and wisdom of God; and from what my reason
can perceive of these attributes of our Father my faith derives the surest foundation on which
to build perfect trust and confidence, where my reason can no longer discern the meaning of
my existence, the exact purpose of its several events, and significance of its circumstances.
Entire faith in God seems to me entirely reasonable; but, indeed, I have yet had no experience
of any dispensations of Divine Providence which at all tried or shook my reason, or disturbed
my trust in their unfailing righteousness.

Our reason, above all our other faculties, shows us how little we can know; and it is the very
function of reason to perceive how finite, vague, and feeble all our conceptions of the Almighty
must be; how utterly futile all our attempts to fathom His purposes, whose ways are assuredly
not our ways, nor His thoughts our thoughts.

The spring has come; the mysterious resurrection which with its annually recurring miracle
adorns the earth, and makes the heavens above it bright; and even on this uninteresting place,
the flush of rosy bloom down in the apple-orchard, the tender green halo above, the golden
green atmosphere beneath the trees of the avenue, the smell of the blossoms, the songs of the
birds, awaken impressions of delight; and while the senses rejoice, the soul worships. Tulips,
and hyacinths, and lilacs, and monthly roses shake about in the soft wind, and scatter their
colored petals like jewels among the young vivid verdure. Delicate shadows of delicate leaves
lie drawn in quivering tracery on the smooth emerald grass. My garden is a source of pleasure
and perpetual occupation to me. Here, where ornamental cultivation is so little attended to,
my small improvements of our small pleasure-ground are repaid, not only by my own enjoyment,
but by the admiring commendation of all who knew the place before we came to it; and as within
the last two years I have planted upwards of two hundred trees, I begin to feel as if I had
really done something in my generation. Good-bye, dear.

  I remain ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                           BUTLER PLACE, June 7th, 1840.

Thank you, my dear Mrs. Jameson, for your letter of April 4th. It was interesting and amusing
enough to have been written by one whose thoughts and feelings were far otherwise free and
cheerful than yours could have been when you indited it. I lament the protraction of your father's
illness very much, for your mother's sake, and all your sakes. A serious illness at his period
of life is not a circumstance to cause surprise; but its long continuance is to be deprecated,
no less for the sufferer than those whose health and strength, expended in anxious watching,
can leave them but little fortitude to meet the result should it prove fatal. I hope to hear
in your next that your mother is relieved from her present painful position, and that your
own spirits are more cheerful.

I have not seen even as much as an extract from Leigh Hunt's play [I think called a "Legend
of Florence," and founded upon the incident that gave its name to the Via della Morte in the
fair city]; but I am very glad he has written one, and hope he will write others: certain elements
of his genius are essentially those of an effective dramatist, and surely, if the public can
swallow a play of ----'s, it might be brought to taste one of Leigh Hunt's. I dislike everything
that ---- ever wrote, and think he ought to have been a Frenchman. Can one say worse of a man
who is not?...

You ask me if writing plays is not pleasanter and more profitable than reading Gibbon. Certainly,
if one only has the mind to do the one instead of the other, which at present I have not.

I have sometimes fancied it was my duty to work out such talent of that kind as was in me;
but I have hitherto not felt at all sure that I had any such gift which, you know, would be
necessary before I could determine what was my duty with regard to it. I never write anything
but upon impulse--all my compositions are impromptus; and the species of atmosphere I live
in is not favorable to that order of inspiration. The outward sameness of my life; its uniformity
of color, level surface, and monotonous tone; its unvaried tenor, alike devoid of pleasurable
and painful excitement; its wholesome abundance of daily recurring trivial occupations, and
absence of any great or varied interests; its entire isolation from all literary and intellectual
society, which might strike the fire from the sleepy stone--all these influences prevail against
my writing.

I once thought the material lay within me, but it will probably moulder away for want of use;
and as long as I am neither the worse woman, wife, nor mother for its neglect, I take it it
matters very little, and there is no harm done. My serious interest in life is the care of
my children, and my principal recreation is my garden; and though I formerly sometimes imagined
I had faculties whose exercise might demand a wider sphere, the consciousness that I discharge
very imperfectly the obligations of that which I occupy, ought to satisfy me that its homely
duties and modest tasks are more than sufficient for my abilities; and though I am not satisfied
with myself, I should be with my existence, since, such as it is, it furnishes me with more
work than I do as it should be done.

From the interest you express in Fanny Ellsler, you will be glad to hear that her success here
has been triumphant. I believe the great mass of people always recognize and acknowledge excellence
when they see it, though their stupid or ignorant toleration of what is mediocre, or even bad,
would seem to indicate the contrary.... The general mind of man is capable of perceiving the
most excellent in all things, and prompt to seize it, too, when it meets with it. Even in morals
it does so theoretically, however the difficulty of adhering to high standards may make the
actions of most people conform but little to their best conceptions of right. The idea of perfection
is recognized by the spirit of creatures capable of and destined for perfection in all things,
whether great or small; and so (since this is à propos of opera dancing) Fanny Ellsler's performances
have been appreciated here to a degree that would astonish those who forget that education,
though it develops, does not create our finer perceptions, and, moreover, that the finest are
commoner than is commonly believed. The possession is almost universal: the cultivation in
any degree worth anything comparatively rare, and in a high degree very rare indeed everywhere;
and here--well! it does not exist.

I hope we shall see you in England in the autumn; I am using every endeavor not to be sent
over alone.... I cannot bear to go to England again a "widow bewitched."

                              I am ever yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                           BUTLER PLACE, June 8th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

It is not to you that I apologize for talking over-much about my children, but to myself....
For what said the witty Frenchman of a man's love for wife and child? "Ah! bien c'est de l'égoïsme
à trois." ... I hope you will see my children, both them and me, in a very few months; for
I think we are coming to England in September, and I shall surely not leave it without borrowing
some of your company from you, let you be where you may....

I must go and dress for dinner, hence the brevity of this letter, which pray accept for "the
soul of wit."

Did you ever see a humming-bird? Have they them in Italy? We have a honeysuckle hedge here,
where the little jewels of creatures stuff themselves incessantly, early and late, sabbaths
and week-days, flickering over the sweet bushes of fragrance, like the diamonds of modern fashion
set on elastic wires, to make them quiver and increase their sparkle and brilliancy. I should
like to have written some more to you.

                              I am ever your affectionate
                                                                F. A. B.

                                          BUTLER PLACE, June 28th, 1840.
  MY DEAR T----,

Your discoveries in the private character of Sir Samuel Romilly are none to me. I have known
those who knew him intimately. My brother was school and college mate of his sons, one of whom
I know very well; and their father's character, in all its most endearing aspects, was familiar
to me. I think I was once told (not by them, however, of course) that the melancholy induced
by the loss of his wife had been the chief cause of his destroying himself, for he was devotedly
and passionately attached to her.

We go every night to see Fanny Ellsler; only think what an extraordinary effort of dissipation
for me, who hardly ever stir abroad of an evening, and who had almost as much forgotten the
inside of a theatre as Falstaff had the inside of a church! My admiration for her grows rather
than diminishes, though she is a better actress even than dancer, which I think speaks in favor
of her intellect. Did you ever see Taglioni? Who invented and who suggested the expression
the "poetry of motion"? It should have been made for her. Her dancing is like nothing but poetic
inspiration, and seems as if she was composing while she executed it. I wonder if it is the
ballet-master who devises all the steps of these great dancers,--of course, not the national
dances, but the inconceivably lovely things that Taglioni does, or whether she orders her own
steps, and (given a certain dramatic situation and a certain strain of music) floats or flies,
or glides, or gyrates at her own will and pleasure. Did you ever see her in the "Sylphide"?
What an exquisite pathetic dream of supernatural sentiment that was! Other dances are as graceful
as possible; that woman was grace itself.

I was saying once to my friend, Frederick Rackeman, that Chopin's music made me think of Taglioni's
dancing, to which he replied, to my great surprise, that Chopin had said that he had more than
once received his inspiration from Taglioni's dancing; a curious instance of influence so strong
as to be recognized by one who was perfectly unaware of it. If I remember rightly, Gibson,
the sculptor, said that he owed many suggestions to the vigorous and graceful dancing of Cerito;
but those, of course, were a suggestion of form to a creator of form, and not an inspiration
of exquisite sound gathered from exquisite motion, as in the instance of Taglioni and Chopin.

Certain music suggests the waving of trees, as in the Notturno in Mendelssohn's "Midsummer
Night's Dream" and Schubert's exquisite beckoning song of the linden tree.

Certainly dancers deserve to be well paid when one thinks of the mechanical labor, the daily
hours of battements and changements de pieds, and turning, and twisting, and torturing of the
limbs before this apparently spontaneous result of mere movement can be obtained.

Ellsler has great dramatic power. Her Tarentelle and Wylie are really finely tragical in parts;
but then she had a first-rate head as well as foot training.

She is a wonderful artist; but there is something unutterably sad to me in the contemplation
of such a career. The blending in most unnatural union of the elements of degradation and moral
misery with such exquisite perceptions of beauty, grace, and refinement, produces the impression
of a sort of monstrosity, a deformity of the whole higher nature, which fills one with poignant
compassion and regret. Poor, fair, admired, despised, flattered, forlorn souls!...

Pray come and see us when you can, and

                              Believe me very truly yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                          BUTLER PLACE, June 26th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

Mr. Combe and Cecilia spent the day with us on their way to New York, and I did rejoice to
think her pilgrimage was over. She has gone through what her former habits of life must have
made a severe experience in travelling in this country. Her affection for her husband, and
her devotion to his views, are unbounded, and have helped her to submit to her trial with a
cheerfulness and good humor worthy of all praise; for the luxurious comfort of her life in
her mother's house was certainly a bad preparation for roughing it, as she has been doing for
some months past, for the sake of the phrenologist and his phrenology.... I never knew any
one more improved by the blessed discipline of happiness than she appears to be. I am afraid
my incapacity to accept the whole of their system would always prevent our being as good friends
as we might otherwise with opportunity become. Perhaps, however, as the opportunity is not
likely to offer often, it does not much matter....

Saunders, the miniature-painter, of London celebrity, has come out here to look at the pretty
faces on this side of the water.... He told me that he had once executed to order a miniature
of me, partly from seeing me on the stage, and partly from memory. I knew nothing whatever
of this, and think it is one among the many nuisances of being a "public character," or what
the American Minister's wife said her position had made her, "Une femme publique," that one's
likeness may thus be stolen, and sold or bought by anybody who chooses to traffic in such gear.

I remember my mother telling me of a painful circumstance which had occurred to her from the
same cause. A young officer of some distinction, who died in India, left among his effects
a miniature of her; and she was disagreeably surprised by receiving from his mother a heartbroken
appeal to her, saying that the fact of her son's being in possession of this portrait led her
to hope that perhaps my mother might possess one of him, and entreating her, if such were the
case, to permit her (his mother) to have a copy of it, as she had no likeness of her son. My
mother was obliged to reply that she had no such portrait, and had never known or even heard
the name of the gentleman who was in possession of hers....

How many things make one feel as if one's whole life was only a confused dream! Wouldn't it
be odd to wake at the end, and find one had not lived at all? Many perhaps will wake at the
end, and find it so indeed in one sense,--which brings us back to the more serious aspect of
things....

I had some time ago a joint-stock letter from my brother John and his wife, informing me of
the birth of their son. I do not think they mentioned who was to be its godmother; but I quite
agree with Mrs. Kemble (my Uncle John's widow), as to the inexpediency of undertaking such
a sponsorship for any one's child. If it means anything, it means something so serious that
I should shrink from such a responsibility; and if it means (as it generally does) nothing,
I think it would be better omitted altogether. When I was at home I dissuaded my sister from
standing godmother to their little girl; but I do not think any of them understood my motive
for doing so....

You ask me whether the specimens of Irish order, neatness, and intelligence which came over
here to fill our domestic ranks are beyond training. Truly, training is, for the most part,
so far beyond them, that it is no easy matter to simplify even the first rudiments of the science
of civilization sufficiently to render them intelligible to these fair countrywomen of yours.
Patience is a fine thing, and might accomplish something, perhaps; but there are insuperable
bars to any hope of their progress in the high wages which they can all command at once, whether
they ever saw the inside of a decent house before they came to this country or not; the abundance
of situations; and the absence of everything like superior competition. The extraordinary comparative
prosperity to which these poor ignorant girls are suddenly introduced on their arrival here,
the high pay, the profusely plentiful living, the equality treatment, which must seem almost
quality treatment to them, presently make them impertinent and unsteady; and as they can all
command a new situation the instant that, for any cause, they leave the one they are in (unfit
for the commonest situation in a decent household as they are), it is hardly worth their while,
out of a mere abstract love of perfection, to labor at any very great improvement of their
powers. A residence of some years in this country generally develops their intelligence into
a sort of sharp-sighted calculating shrewdness, which they do not bring with them, but no way
improves their own quick native wit and natural national humor. Of course there are exceptions;
but the majority of them, after a short stay in America, contrive to combine their own least
desirable race qualities with the independent tone of pert familiarity, the careless extravagance,
and the passion for dress of American girls of the lower class....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                            BUTLER PLACE, July 8th 1840.

Perhaps, dearest Harriet, it might be better for me not to come to England, inasmuch as my
roots are beginning to spread in my present soil, and to transplant them, even for a short
time, might check the process materially.... But while my father still lives, I shall hope
to revisit England once in every few years: when he is gone, I will give up all the rest that
I own on the other side of the water, and remain here until it might be thought desirable for
us to visit, not England only, but Europe; and should that never appear desirable, why, then,
remain here till I die.

My father's health received a beneficial stimulus from the excitement of his temporary return
to the stage; but before that, his condition was by all accounts very unsatisfactory; and I
am afraid that when the effect of the impulse his physical powers received from the pleasurable
exertion of acting subsides, he may again relapse into feebleness, dejection, and general disorder
of the system, from which he appeared to be suffering before he made this last professional
effort. I must see him once more, and he has written to me to say that as soon as he knows
when we are coming to England, he will meet us there. He will, I am pretty sure, bring my sister
with him, and this is an additional reason why I am very anxious to be in England this autumn....
I have no doubt that they will both come to England in September, to meet me, and I presume
we should remain together until I am obliged to return to America.

I have not expressed to you, my dearest Harriet, my delight at your relief from immediate anxiety
about Dorothy. Sorrow seems to me so peculiarly severe in its administration--or discipline,
should I call it?--to your spirit, that I thank God that its heavy pressure is lifted from
your heart for the present. Dorothy is one of those with whom I always feel sure that all is
well, let their circumstances or situation be what they will; but I rejoice that she is spared
physical suffering, and preserved to you, to whom she is so infinitely precious....

                                                                F. A. B.

                                               LENOX, August 15th, 1840.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

... You bid me tell you when I shall leave America to pay my promised visit to my father. I
have been thrown into a state of complete uncertainty by receiving a letter from my brother
John, which informs me of my sister's engagement at Naples and Palermo, and possible further
engagements at Malta and Constantinople! Think of her going to sing to the Turks!... I am at
present alone here, and of course cannot myself determine the question of my going alone all
over the Continent to join my father and Adelaide.... It is possible that I may have to renounce
my visit to Europe altogether for the present, and, but for my father, I could do so without
a moment's hesitation, but I dread postponing seeing him again, and, while I do so, shall live
in a perpetual apprehension that I shall hear of his death as I did of that of my poor mother.
I consider the visit I contemplated making him our probable last season of reunion, and cannot
banish the thought that if it is indefinitely postponed I may perhaps never see him again....

An intense interest is felt by all good Democrats in the coming election, which determines
whether Mr. Van Buren is to retain the Presidency or not; and no zealous member of his party
would leave the country while that was undetermined. John writes me, too, that he expects my
father and sister both in London after Easter next year, and I have no doubt it will be thought
best that I should wait till then to join them in England. However, all my plans must remain
for the present in utter uncertainty, and I shall surely not meet you and Emily at Bannisters,
which I could well have liked to do....

What lots of umbrellas you must wear out at Grasmere! [Miss S---- and Miss W---- were passing
the summer at the English lakes.] I am writing pretty late at night, but if the Sedgwicks,
whom you know, and those who, through them, know you, were round me, I should have showers
of love to send you from them: your rainy lake country suggested that image, but that would
be a warm shower, which you don't get in Westmoreland. I am growing very fat, but at the present
there is no fatty degeneracy of the heart, so that I still remain

                              Affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                LENOX, MASSACHUSETTS, August 28th, 1840.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

I have always considered your writing to me a very unmerited kindness towards one who had so
little claim on your time and attention; and I need not tell you how much this feeling is increased
by your present state of mind, and the effort I am sure it must be to you to remember one so
far off, in the midst of your great sorrow [for the death of her daughter, Mrs. Sullivan]....
I shall come alone to England; and this is the more dismal, that I have it in prospect to go
down to Naples to join my father and sister, and stay with them till her engagements there
and at Palermo are ended. This journey (once my vision by day and dream by night) will lose
much of its delight by being a solitary pilgrimage to the long-desired Italy. I think of pressing
one of my brothers into my service as escort; or if they are not able to go with me, shall
write to my father to come to England, as he lately sent me word he would do, at any time that
I would meet him there--of course, to return immediately with him to my sister. They will both,
I believe, be in England after Easter next year; and then I shall hope to be allowed to see
you, my dear Lady Dacre, and express to you how much I have sympathized with you in all you
have suffered.

I am not aware of having spoken unjustly or disparagingly of the dramatic profession. You say
I am ungrateful to it: is it because I owe many of my friends (yourself among the number) to
it that you say so? or do you think that I forget that circumstance? But to value it as an
art, simply for the personal advantages or pleasures that it was the means of affording me,
would be surely quite as absurd as to forget that it did procure such for me. Then, upon reflection,
few things have ever puzzled me more than the fact of people liking me because I pretended
to be a pack of Juliets and Belvideras, and creatures who were not me. Perhaps I was jealous
of my parts; certainly, the good will my assumption of them obtained for me, always seemed
to me quite as curious as flattering, or indeed rather more so. I did not think it an unbecoming
comment on my father's acting again at the Queen's request, when I said that the excitement
to which he had been habituated for so many years had still charms for him; it would be very
strange indeed if it had not. It is chiefly from this point of view, and one or two others
bearing on the moral health, that I deprecate for those I love the exercise of that profession;
the claims of which to be considered as an art I cannot at all determine satisfactorily in
my own mind. That we have Shakespeare's plays, written expressly for the interpretation of
acting, is a strong argument for the existence of a positive art of acting: nevertheless----.
But, if you please, we will settle that point when I have the pleasure of seeing you. I suppose
I shall steam for England in October, when I shall endeavor to see you before I go abroad.
Give my kindest regards to Lord Dacre, and believe me always

                              Very affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                           Lenox, September 4th, 1840.
  My dearest Harriet,

... First of all, let me congratulate you, and dear Dorothy, upon her improved health. Good
as she is, I am sure she must value life; for those who use it best, best know its infinite
worth; and for you, my dearest Harriet, this extension of the precious loan of her existence
to you, I am persuaded, must be full of the greatest blessings. Give my affectionate love to
her when you write to her or see her again; for, indeed, I suppose you are now at Bannisters,
where I should like well to be with you, but I much fear that I shall not see you this winter,
though I expect to sail for England next month....

You ask me of the distance between the Virginia Springs and Lenox, and I am ashamed to say
I cannot answer; however, almost half the length of the United States, I think. This, my northern
place of summer sojourn, is in the heart of the hill country of Massachusetts, in a district
inhabited chiefly by Sedgwicks, and their belongings....

Our friends the Sedgwicks reached their homes about a fortnight ago, and the hills and valleys
hereabouts rejoiced thereat.... Katharine's health and spirits are much revived by the atmosphere
of love by which she is surrounded in her home. She bids me give her love to you. I wonder,
with your miserable self-distrust, whether you have any idea of the affectionate regard all
these people bear you. Katharine, a short time before leaving Europe, saw in a shop a dark
gray stuff which resembled a dress you used to wear; she immediately bought it for herself,
and carrying it home asked her brother who it reminded him of. He instantly kissed the stuff,
exclaiming, "H---- S----!" Young Kate's journal contains a most affectionate record of their
short intimacy with you at Wiesbaden; and you have left a deep impression on these hearts,
where as little that is bad or base abides as in any frail human hearts I ever knew....

I have regained so much of my former appearance that I trust when I do see you I shall not
horrify you, as you seemed some time ago to anticipate, by an apparition altogether unlike
your, ever essentially the same,

                                                                F. A. B.

                                        BUTLER PLACE, October 7th, 1840.

... Dearest Harriet, whatever may be the evils which may spring from the amazing facilities
of intercourse daily developing between distant countries (and with so great good, how should
there not be some evil?), think of those whose lots are cast far from their early homes and
friends; think of the deathlike separation that going to America has been to thousands who
left England, and friends there, but a few years ago; the uncertainty of intercourse by letter,
the interminable intervals of suspense, the impossibility of making known or understood by
hearts that yearned for such information the new and strange circumstances of the exile's existence;
the gradual dying out of friendships, and cooling of warm regard, from the impossibility of
sufficient intercourse to keep interest alive; and sympathy, after endeavoring in vain to picture
the distant home and surroundings and daily occupations of the absent friend, dwindling and
withering away for want of necessary aliment, in spite of all the efforts which imagination
could make to satisfy the affectionate desire and longing loving inquiries of the heart. Think
of all that those two existences as you call them (existences no more--but mere ideas), Time
and Space, have caused of misery and suspense and heart-wearing anxiety, and rejoice that so
much has been done to make parting less bitter, and absence endurable, through hope that now
amounts almost to certainty.

My own plans, which I thought so thoroughly settled a short time ago, have again become extremely
indefinite. It is now considered inexpedient that I should travel on the Continent, though
there is no objection to my remaining in England until my father's return, which I understand
is expected soon after Easter. As, however, my motive in leaving America is to be with my father
and sister, I have no idea of going to London to remain there three months, without any expectation
of seeing them. This consideration would incline me to put off my visit to England till the
spring, but it is not yet determined who, or whether any of us, will go to Georgia for the
winter. My being taken thither is entirely uncertain; but should the contrary be decided upon,
I might perhaps come to England immediately, as I would rather pass the winter in London, among
my friends, if I am to spend it alone, than here, where the severe weather suspends all out-of-door
exercise, interests, and occupations, and where the absolute solitude is a terrible trial to
my nerves and spirits.

At present, however, I have not a notion what will be determined about it, but as soon as I
have any positive idea upon the subject I will let you know.

We returned from Massachusetts a few days ago, and I find a profusion of flowers and almost
summer heat here, though the golden showers that every now and then flicker from the trees,
and the rustling sound of fallen leaves, and the autumnal smell of mignonette, and other "fall"
flowers, whisper of the coming winter; still all here at present is bright and sweet, with
that peculiar combination of softness and brilliancy which belongs to the autumn in this part
of America. It is the pleasantest season of the year here, and indescribably beautiful....

Good-bye, dearest Harriet; I had hoped to have joined you and Emily at Bannisters, but that
pretty plan is all rubbed out now, and I do not know when I shall see you; but, thanks to those
blessed beings--the steam-ships, those Atlantic angels of speed and certainty, it now seems
as if I could do so "at any moment." God bless you.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                             BUTLER PLACE, October 26th.

I beg you will not stop short, as in your last letter, received the day before yesterday, dearest
Harriet, with "but I will not overwhelm you with questions:" it is particularly agreeable to
me to have specific questions to answer in the letters I receive from you, and I hope you perceive
that I do religiously reply to anything in the shape of a query. It is pleasant to me to know
upon what particular points of my doing, being, and suffering you desire to be enlightened;
because although I know everything I write to you interests you, I like to be able to satisfy
even a few of those "I wonders" that are perpetually rising up in our imaginations with respect
to those we love and who are absent from us.

You ask me if I ever write any journal, or anything else now. The time that I passed in the
South was so crowded with daily and hourly occupations that, though I kept a regular journal,
it was hastily written, and received constant additional notes of things that occurred, and
that I wished to remember, inserted in a very irregular fashion in it.... I think I should
like to carry this journal down to Georgia with me this winter; to revise, correct, and add
whatever my second experience might furnish to the chronicle. It has been suggested to me that
such an account of a Southern plantation might be worth publishing; but I think such a publication
would be a breach of confidence, an advantage taken on my part of the situation of trust, which
I held on the estate. As my condemnation of the whole system is unequivocal, and all my illustrations
of its evils must be drawn from our own plantation, I do not think I have a right to exhibit
the interior management and economy of that property to the world at large, as a sample of
Southern slavery, especially as I did not go thither with any such purpose. This winter I think
I shall mention my desire upon the subject before going to the South, and of course any such
publication must then depend on the acquiescence of the owners of the estate. I am sure that
no book of mine on the subject could be of as much use to the poor people on Butler's Island
as my residence among them; and I should, therefore, be very unwilling to do anything that
was likely to interfere with that: although I have sometimes been haunted with the idea that
it was an imperative duty, knowing what I know, and having seen what I have seen, to do all
that lies in my power to show the dangers and evils of this frightful institution. And the
testimony of a planter's wife, whose experience has all been gathered from estates where the
slaves are universally admitted to be well treated, should carry with it some authority. So
I am occupying myself, from time to time, as my leisure allows, in making a fair copy of my
Georgia Journal.

I occasionally make very copious extracts from what I read, and also write critical analyses
of the books that please or displease me, in the language--French or Italian--in which they
are written; but these are fragmentary, and do not, I think, entitle me to say that I am writing
anything. No one here is interested in anything that I write, and I have too little serious
habit of study, too little application, and too much vanity and desire for the encouragement
of praise, to achieve much in my condition of absolute intellectual solitude....

Here are two of your questions answered; the third is--whether I let the slave question rest
more than I did? Oh yes; for I have come to the conclusion that no words of mine could be powerful
enough to dispel the clouds of prejudice which early habits of thought, and the general opinion
of society upon this subject have gathered round the minds of the people I live among. I do
not know whether they ever think or read about it, and my arguments, though founded in this
case on pretty sound reason, are apt to degenerate into passionate appeals, the violence of
which is not calculated to do much good in the way of producing convictions in the minds of
others....

Even if the property were mine, I could exercise no power over it; nor could our children,
after our death, do anything for those wretched slaves, under the present laws of Georgia.
All that any one could do, would be to refrain from using the income derived from the estates,
and return it to the rightful owners--that is, the earners of it. Had I such a property, I
think I would put my slaves at once quietly upon the footing of free laborers, paying them
wages, and making them pay me rent and take care of themselves. Of course I should be shot
by my next neighbor (against whom no verdict would be found except "Serve her right!") in the
first week of my experiment; but if I wasn't, I think, reckoning only the meanest profit to
be derived from the measure, I should double the income of the estate in less than three years....
I am more than ever satisfied that God and Mammon would be equally propitiated by emancipation.

You ask me whether I take any interest in the Presidential election. Yes, though I have not
room left for my reasons--and I have some, besides that best woman's reason, sympathy with
the politics of the man I belong to. The party coming into power are, I believe, at heart less
democratic than the other; and while the natural advantages of this wonderful country remain
unexhausted (and they are apparently inexhaustible), I am sure the Republican Government is
by far the best for the people themselves, besides thinking it the best in the abstract, as
you know I do.

God bless you, my dearest Harriet.

                              I am ever yours most affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The question of my spending the winter in Georgia was finally
    determined by Mr. J---- B---- 's decided opposition to my doing so.
    He was part proprietor of the plantation, and positively stipulated
    that I should not again be taken thither, considering my presence
    there as a mere source of distress to myself, annoyance to others,
    and danger to the property.

    I question the validity of the latter objection, but not at all that
    of the two first; and am sure that, upon the whole, his opposition
    to my residence among his slaves was not only justifiable but
    perfectly reasonable.

    My Georgia journal was not published until thirty years after it was
    written, during the civil war in the United States. I was then
    passing some time in England, and the people among whom I lived
    were, like most well-educated members of the upper classes of
    English society, Southern sympathizers. The ignorant and mischievous
    nonsense I was continually compelled to hear upon the subject of
    slavery in the seceding States determined me to publish my own
    observation of it--not, certainly, that I had in those latter years
    of my life any fallacious expectation of making converts on the
    subject, but that I felt constrained at that juncture to bear my
    testimony to the miserable nature and results of the system, of
    which so many of my countrymen and women were becoming the
    sentimental apologists.

    It being now settled that I was not to return to the plantation, my
    thoughts had hardly reverted to the prospect of a winter in England
    when I received the news of my father's return from the Continent,
    and dangerous illness in London; so that, I was told, unless I could
    go to him immediately, there was but little probability of my ever
    seeing him again. The misfortune I had so often anticipated now
    seemed to have overtaken me, and instant preparation for my leaving
    America being made, and an elderly lady, with whom I had become
    connected by my marriage, having exerted her influence in my behalf,
    I was not allowed, under such painful circumstances, again to cross
    the Atlantic alone, but returned with a very heavy heart to my own
    country, but with the comfort of being accompanied by my whole
    family.

    The news that met me on my arrival was that my father was at the
    point of death, that he would not probably survive twenty-four
    hours, and that it was altogether inexpedient that he should see
    me, as, if he recognized me, which was doubtful, my unexpected
    appearance, it having been impossible to prepare him for it, might
    only be the means of causing him a violent and perhaps painful shock
    of nervous agitation. This terrible verdict, pronounced by three of
    the most eminent medical men of the day, Bright, Liston, and Wilson,
    was a dreadful close to all the anxious days and hours of the sea
    voyage, during which I had hoped and prayed to be again permitted to
    embrace my father. But in my deep distress, I could not help
    remembering that, after all, his physicians, able as they were, had
    not the keys of life and death. And so it proved: my father made an
    almost miraculous rally, recovered, and survived the sentence
    pronounced against him for many years.

    Not many days after our arrival, his improved condition admitted of
    his being told of my return, and allowed to see me. Cadaverous is
    the only word that describes the appearance to which acute suffering
    and subsequent prostration had reduced him; he looked, indeed, like
    one returned from the dead, and, in his joy at seeing me again,
    declared that I had restored him to life, and that my arrival,
    though he had not known of it, had called him back to existence--a
    sympathetic theory of convalescence, to which I do not think his
    doctors gave in their adhesion.

    We now took up our abode in London; first at the Clarendon Hotel,
    and afterwards in Clarges Street, Piccadilly, where my father, as
    soon as he could be moved, came to reside with us, and where my
    sister joined us on her return from Italy. My friend Miss S----,
    coming from Ireland to stay with me soon after my arrival in
    England, added to my happiness in finding myself once more with my
    own family, and in my own country.]

                                             CLARGES STREET, March 21st.

You will, ere this, dearest H----, have received my answer to your first letter. You ask me,
in your second, what we think about the chances of a war with America. Our wishes prompt us
to the belief that a war between the two countries is impossible, though the tone of the newspapers,
within the last few days, has been horribly pugnacious. A letter was received the day before
yesterday, from our Liverpool factor, asking us what is to be done about some cotton which
had just come to them from the plantation, in the event of war breaking out: a supposition
which he had treated as an utter impossibility when he was last in London, but which he confessed
in this letter did not seem to him quite so impossible now. I do not, for my own part, see
very well how either party is to get out of its present attitude towards the other peaceably
and, at the same time, without some compromise of dignity. But I pray God that the hearts of
the two nations may be inclined to peace, and then, doubtless, some cunning device will be
found to save their honor. The virtuous "if" of Touchstone is, I am afraid, not as valid in
national as individual quarrels.

Tell Mr. H---- W----, with my love, that it is all a hoax about Niagara Falls having fallen
down; and that they are still falling down, according to their custom; but if you should find
this intelligence affect him with too painful a disappointment, you may comfort him by assuring
him that they inevitably must and will fall down one of these days, and, what is more, stay
fallen, and precisely in the manner they are now said to have begun their career--by the gradual
wearing away of the rock between Lake Ontario and Lake Erie.

We were at the opera the Saturday after you left us; but it was a mediocre performance, both
music and dancing, and gave me but little pleasure. I went last night again with my father,
and was enchanted with the opera, which was an old favorite, "Tancredi," in which I heard Persiani,
an admirable artist, with a mere golden wire of voice, of which she made most capital use,
and Pauline Garcia, who possesses all the genius of her family; and between them it was a perfect
performance. The latter is a sister of Malibran's, and will certainly be one of the finest
dramatic singers of these times. But the proximity of people to me in the stalls is so intolerable
that I think I shall give mine up; for I am in a state of nervous crawling the whole time,
with being pushed and pressed and squeezed and leaned on and breathed on by my fellow-creatures.
You remember my old theory, that we are all of us surrounded by an atmosphere proper to ourselves,
emanating from each of us,--a separate, sensitive envelope, extending some little distance
from our visible persons. I am persuaded that this is the case, and that when my individual
atmosphere is invaded by any one, it affects my whole nervous system. The proximity of any
bodies but those I love best is unendurable to my body.

My father is much in the same condition as when you went away, suffering a great deal, and
complaining frequently; but by his desire we have a dinner-party here on Tuesday, and he has
accepted two invitations to dine out himself. My chicks are pretty well....

May God bless you, dear.

                              I am ever your own
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                         CLARGES STREET.

This letter was begun three days ago, and it is now Thursday, March the 25th. Do not, I beseech
you, ever make any appeals to my imagination, or my feelings. I have lost all I ever had of
the first, and I never had any at all of the second....

You ask me if I have been riding. Only once or twice, for I may not do what I so fain would,
give all the visiting to utter neglect, and ride every day. Yesterday I was on horseback for
two hours with Henry, who, having sold his pretty mare, for £65, to the author of the new comedy
at Covent Garden, was obliged to bestride one of Mr. Allen's screws, as he calls them. The
day was dusty and windy, and very disagreeable, but I was all the better for my shaking, as
I always am. I am never in health, looks, or spirits without daily hard exercise on horseback.

My first meeting with Mrs. Grote (I am answering your questions, dearest H----, though you
have probably forgotten them) took place after all at Sydney Smith's, at a dinner the very
next day after you left us. We did not say a great deal to each other, but upon my saying incidentally
(I forget about what) "I, who have always preserved my liberty, at least the small crumb of
it that a woman can own anywhere," she faced about, in a most emphatical manner, and said,
"Then you've struggled for it." "No, I have not been obliged to do so." "Ah, then you must,
or you'll lose it, you'll lose it, depend upon it." I smiled, but did not reply, because I
saw that she was not taking into consideration the fact of my living in America; and this was
the only truly Grotesque (as Sydney Smith says) passage between us. Since then we have again
ineffectually exchanged cards, and yesterday I received an invitation to her house, so that
I suppose we shall finally become acquainted with each other.

    [Mrs. Grote, wife of George Grote, the banker, member of
    Parliament, and historian of Greece, was one of the cleverest and
    most eccentric women in the London society of my time. No worse a
    judge than De Tocqueville pronounced her the cleverest woman of his
    acquaintance; and she was certainly a very remarkable member of the
    circle of remarkable men among whom she was living when I first knew
    her. At that time she was the female centre of the Radical party in
    politics--a sort of not-young-or-handsome feminine oracle among a
    set of very clever half-heathenish men, in whose drawing-room,
    Sydney Smith used to say, he always expected to find an altar to
    Zeus. At this time Mr. Grote was in the House of Commons, and as it
    was before the publication of his admirable history, his speeches,
    which were as remarkable for their sound sense and enlightened
    liberality as for their clear and forcible style, were not
    unfrequently attributed to his wife, whose considerable
    conversational powers, joined to a rather dictatorial style of
    exercising them, sometimes threw her refined and modest husband a
    little into the shade in general society. When first I made Mrs.
    Grote's acquaintance, the persons one most frequently met at her
    house in Eccleston Street were Roebuck, Leader, Byron's quondam
    associate Trelawney, and Sir William Molesworth; both the first and
    last mentioned gentlemen were then of an infinitely deeper shade of
    radicalism in their politics than they subsequently became. The
    other principal element of Mrs. Grote's society, at this time,
    consisted of musical composers and performers, who found in her a
    cordial and hospitable friend and hostess, and an amateur of unusual
    knowledge and discrimination, as well as much taste and feeling for
    their beautiful art. Her love of music, and courteous reception of
    all foreign artists, caused her to be generally sought by eminent
    professors coming to England; and Liszt, Madame Viardot, Dessauer,
    Thalberg, Mademoiselle Lind, and Mendelssohn were among the
    celebrated musicians one frequently met at her house. With the two
    latter she was very intimate, and it was in her drawing-room that my
    sister gave her first public concert in London. Mendelssohn used
    often to visit her at a small country-place she had in the
    neighborhood of Burnham Beeches.

    It was a very small and modest residence, situated on the verge of
    the magnificent tract of woodland scenery known by that name; a
    dependence, I believe, of the Dropmore estate, which it adjoined. It
    was an unenclosed space of considerable extent, of wild, heathy
    moorland; short turfy strips of common; dingles full of foxglove,
    harebell, and gnarled old stunted hawthorn bushes; and knolls,
    covered with waving crests of powerful feathery fern. It was
    intersected with gravelly paths and roads, whose warm color
    contrasted and harmonized with the woodland hues of everything about
    them; and roofed in by dark green vaults of the most magnificent
    beech foliage I have ever seen anywhere. The trees were of great age
    and enormous size; and from some accidental influence affecting
    their growth, the huge trunks were many of them contorted so as to
    resemble absolutely the twisted Saxon pillars of some old cathedral.
    In many of them the powerful branches (as large themselves as trunks
    of common trees) spread out from the main tree, at a height of about
    six feet from the ground, into a sort of capacious leafy chamber,
    where eight or ten people could have sat embowered. A more perfectly
    English woodland scene it would be impossible to imagine, and here,
    as Mrs. Grote told me, Mendelssohn found the inspiration of much of
    the music of his "Midsummer Night's Dream." (The overture he had
    composed, and played to us one evening at my father's house, when
    first he came to England, before he was one-and-twenty.) At one time
    Mrs. Grote contemplated erecting some monument in the beautiful wood
    to his memory, and showed me a copy of verses, not devoid of merit,
    which she thought of inscribing on it to his honor; but she never
    carried out the suggestion of her affectionate admiration; and to
    those who knew and loved Mendelssohn (alas! the expressions are
    synonymous), the glorious wood itself, where he walked and mused and
    held converse with the spirit of Shakespeare, forms a solemn sylvan
    temple, forever consecrated to tender memories of his bright genius
    and lovely character.

    When first I knew Mrs. Grote, however, her artistic sympathies were
    keenly excited in a very different direction; for she had
    undertaken, under some singular impulse of mistaken enthusiasm, to
    make what she called "an honest woman" of the celebrated dancer,
    Fanny Ellsler, and to introduce her into London society,--neither of
    them very attainable results, even for as valiant and enterprising
    a person as Mrs. Grote. When first I heard of this strange
    undertaking I was, in common with most of her friends, much
    surprised at it; nor was it until some years after the entire
    failure of this quixotic experiment, that I became aware that she
    had been actuated by any motive but the kindliest and most mistaken
    enthusiasm.

    Mademoiselle Ellsler was at this time at the height of her great and
    deserved popularity as a dancer, and whatever I may have thought of
    the expediency or possibility of making what Mrs. Grote called "an
    honest woman" of her, I was among the most enthusiastic admirers of
    her great excellence in her elegant art. She was the only
    intellectual dancer I have ever seen. Inferior to Taglioni (that
    embodied genius of rhythmical motion) in lightness, grace, and
    sentiment; to Carlotta Grisi in the two latter qualities; and with
    less mere vigor and elasticity than Cerito, she excelled them all in
    dramatic expression; and parts of her performance in the ballets of
    the "Tarantella" and the wild legend of "Gisele, the Willye,"
    exhibited tragic power of a very high order, while the same strongly
    dramatic element was the cause of her pre-eminence in all national
    and characteristic dances, such as El Jaleo de Xeres, the
    Cracovienne, et cetera. This predominance of the intellectual
    element in her dancing may have been the result of original
    organization, or it may have been owing to the mental training which
    Ellsler received from Frederic von Genz, Gensius, the German writer
    and diplomatist, who educated her, and whose mistress she became
    while still quite a young girl. However that may be, Mrs. Grote
    always maintained that her genius lay full as much in her head as in
    her heels. I am not sure that the finest performance of hers that I
    ever witnessed was not a minuet in which she danced the man's part,
    in full court-suit of the time of Louis XVI., with most admirable
    grace and nobility of demeanor.

    Mrs. Grote labored hard to procure her acceptance in society; her
    personal kindness to her was of the most generous description: but
    her great object of making "an honest woman" of her, I believe
    failed signally in every way.

    On one occasion I paid Mrs. Grote a visit at Burnham Beeches. Our
    party consisted only of my sister and myself; the Viennese composer,
    Dessauer; and Chorley, the musical critic of the Athenæum, who
    was very intimately acquainted with us all. The eccentricities of
    our hostess, with which some of us were already tolerably familiar,
    were a source of unfeigned amazement and awe to Dessauer, who,
    himself the most curious, quaint, and withal nervously excitable and
    irritable humorist, was thrown into alternate convulsions of
    laughter and spasms of terror at the portentous female figure, who,
    with a stick in her hand, a man's hat on her head, and a coachman's
    box-coat of drab cloth with manifold capes over her petticoats
    (English women had not yet then adopted a costume undistinguishable
    from that of the other sex), stalked about the house and grounds,
    alternately superintending various matters of the domestic economy,
    and discussing, with equal knowledge and discrimination, questions
    of musical criticism and taste.

    One most ludicrous scene which took place on this occasion I shall
    never forget. She had left us to our own devices, and we were all in
    the garden. I was sitting in a swing, and my sister, Dessauer, and
    Chorley were lying on the lawn at my feet, when presently, striding
    towards us, appeared the extravagant figure of Mrs. Grote, who, as
    soon as she was within speaking-trumpet distance, hailed us with a
    stentorian challenge about some detail of dinner--I think it was
    whether the majority voted for bacon and peas or bacon and beans.
    Having duly settled this momentous question, as Mrs. Grote turned
    and marched away, Dessauer--who had been sitting straight up,
    listening with his head first on one side and then on the other,
    like an eagerly intelligent terrier, taking no part in the culinary
    controversy (indeed, his entire ignorance of English necessarily
    disqualified him for even comprehending it), but staring intently,
    with open eyes and mouth, at Mrs. Grote--suddenly began, with his
    hands and lips, to imitate the rolling of a drum, and then broke out
    aloud with, "Malbrook s'en vat' en guerre," etc.; whereupon the
    terrible lady faced right about, like a soldier, and, planting her
    stick in the ground, surveyed Dessauer with an awful countenance.
    The wretched little man grew red and then purple, and then black in
    the face with fear and shame; and exclaiming in his agony, "Ah,
    bonté divine! elle m'a compris!" rolled over and over on the lawn
    as if he had a fit. Mrs. Grote majestically waved her hand, and with
    magnanimous disdain of her small adversary turned and departed, and
    we remained horror-stricken at the effect of this involuntary
    tribute of Dessauer's to her martial air and deportment.

    When she returned, however, it was to enter into a most interesting
    and animated discussion upon the subject of Glück's music; and
    suddenly, some piece from the "Iphigenia" being mentioned, she
    shouted for her man-servant, to whom on his appearance she gave
    orders to bring her a chair and footstool, and "the big fiddle" (the
    violoncello) out of the hall; and taking it forthwith between her
    knees, proceeded to play, with excellent taste and expression, some
    of Glück's noble music upon the sonorous instrument, with which St.
    Cecilia is the only female I ever saw on terms of such familiar
    intimacy.

    The second time Mrs. Grote invited me to the Beeches, it was to meet
    Mdlle. Ellsler. A conversation I had with my admirable and excellent
    friend Sydney Smith determined me to decline joining the party. He
    wound up his kind and friendly advice to me upon the subject by
    saying, "No, no, my child; that's all very well for Grota" (the name
    he always gave Mrs. Grote, whose good qualities and abilities he
    esteemed very highly, whatever he may have thought of her
    eccentricities); "but don't mix yourself up with that sort of
    thing." And I had reason to rejoice that I followed his good advice.
    Mrs. Grote told me, in the course of a conversation we once had on
    the subject of Mdlle. Ellsler, that when the latter went to America,
    she, Mrs. Grote, had undertaken most generously the entire care and
    charge of her child, a lovely little girl of about six years old.
    "All I said to her," said this strange, kind-hearted woman, "was
    'Well, Fanny, send the brat to me; I don't ask you whose child it
    is, and I don't care, so long as it isn't that fool d'Orsay's'"
    (Mrs. Grote had small esteem for the dandy of his day), "'and I'll
    take the best care of it I can.'" And she did take the kindest care
    of it during the whole period of Mdlle. Ellsler's absence from
    Europe.

    The next time I visited the Beeches was after an interval of some
    years, when I went thither with my kind and constant friend Mr.
    Rogers. My circumstances had altered very painfully, and I was again
    laboring for my own support.

    I went down to Burnham with the old poet, and was sorry to find
    that, though he had consented to pay Mrs. Grote this visit, he was
    not in particularly harmonious tune for her society, which was
    always rather a trial to his fastidious nerves and refined taste.
    The drive of between three and four miles in a fly (very different
    from his own luxurious carriage), through intricate lanes and rural
    winding avenues, did not tend to soften his acerbities, and I
    perceived at once, on alighting from the carriage, that the aspect
    of the place did not find favor in his eyes.

    Mrs. Grote had just put up an addition to her house, a sort of
    single wing, which added a good-sized drawing-room to the modest
    mansion I had before visited. Whatever accession of comfort the
    house received within from this addition to its size, its beauty,
    externally, was not improved by it, and Mr. Rogers stood before the
    offending edifice, surveying it with a sardonic sneer that I should
    think even brick and mortar must have found it hard to bear. He had
    hardly uttered his three first disparaging bitter sentences, of
    utter scorn and abhorrence of the architectural abortion, which,
    indeed it was, when Mrs. Grote herself made her appearance in her
    usual country costume, box-coat, hat on her head, and stick in her
    hand. Mr. Rogers turned to her with a verjuice smile, and said, "I
    was just remarking that in whatever part of the world I had seen
    this building I should have guessed to whose taste I might attribute
    its erection." To which, without an instant's hesitation, she
    replied, "Ah, 'tis a beastly thing, to be sure. The confounded
    workmen played the devil with the place while I was away." Then,
    without any more words, she led the way to the interior of her
    habitation, and I could not but wonder whether her blunt
    straightforwardness did not disconcert and rebuke Mr. Rogers for his
    treacherous sneer.

    During this visit, much interesting conversation passed with
    reference to the letters of Sydney Smith, who was just dead; and the
    propriety of publishing all his correspondence, which, of course,
    contained strictures and remarks upon people with whom he had been
    living in habits of friendly social intimacy. I remember one morning
    a particularly lively discussion on the subject, between Mrs. Grote
    and Mr. Rogers. The former had a great many letters from Sydney
    Smith, and urged the impossibility of publishing them, with all
    their comments on members of the London world. Rogers, on the
    contrary, apparently delighted at the idea of the mischief such
    revelations would make, urged Mrs. Grote to give them ungarbled to
    the press. "Oh, but now," said the latter, "here, for instance, Mr.
    Rogers, such a letter as this, about ----; do see how he cuts up the
    poor fellow. It really never would do to publish it." Rogers took
    the letter from her, and read it with a stony grin of diabolical
    delight on his countenance and occasional chuckling exclamations of
    "Publish it! publish it! Put an R, dash, or an R and four stars for
    the name. He'll never know it, though everybody else will." While
    Mr. Rogers was thus delecting himself, in anticipation, with R----'s
    execution, Mrs. Grote, by whose side I was sitting on a low stool,
    quietly unfolded another letter of Sydney Smith's, and silently held
    it before my eyes, and the very first words in it were a most
    ludicrous allusion to Rogers's cadaverous appearance. As I raised my
    eyes from this most absurd description of him, and saw him still
    absorbed in his evil delight, the whole struck me as so like a scene
    in a farce that I could not refrain from bursting out laughing.

    In talking of Sydney Smith Mr. Rogers gave us many amusing details
    of various visits he paid him at his place in Somersetshire, Combe
    Flory, where, on one occasion, Jeffrey was also one of the party. It
    was to do honor to these illustrious guests that Sydney Smith had a
    pair of horns fastened on his donkey, who was turned into the
    paddock so adorned, in order, as he said, to give the place a more
    noble and park-like appearance; and it was on this same donkey that
    Jeffrey mounted when Sydney Smith exclaimed with such glee--

        "As short, but not as stout, as Bacchus,
        As witty as Horatius Flacchus,
        As great a radical as Gracchus,
        There he goes riding on my jackuss."

    Rogers told us too, with great satisfaction, an anecdote of Sydney
    Smith's son, known in London society by the amiable nickname of the
    Assassin.... This gentleman, being rather addicted to horse-racing
    and the undesirable society of riders, trainers, jockeys, and
    semi-turf black-legs, meeting a friend of his father's on his
    arrival at Combe Flory, the visitor said, "So you have got Rogers
    here, I find." "Oh, yes," replied Sydney Smith's dissimilar son,
    with a rueful countenance, "but it isn't the Rogers, you know."
    The Rogers, according to him, being a famous horse-trainer and
    rider of that name.

    I have called him his father's dissimilar son, but feel inclined to
    withdraw that epithet, when I recollect his endeavor to find an
    appropriate subject of conversation for the Archbishop of York, by
    whom, on one occasion, he found himself seated at dinner: "Pray, my
    lord, how long do you think it took Nebuchadnezzar to get into
    condition again after his turn out at grass?"

    The third time I went to Burnham Beeches, it was to meet a very
    clever Piedmontese gentleman, with whom Mr. Grote had become
    intimate, Mr. Senior, known and valued for his ability as a
    political economist, his clear and acute intelligence, his general
    information and agreeable powers of conversation. His universal
    acquaintance with all political and statistical details, and the
    whole contemporaneous history of European events, and the readiness
    and fulness of his information on all matters of interest connected
    with public affairs used to make Mrs. Grote call him her "man of
    facts." The other member of our small party was Charles Greville,
    whose acquaintance Mrs. Grote had made through his intimacy with my
    sister and myself. This gentleman was one of the most agreeable
    members of our intimate society. His mother was the sister of the
    late Duke of Portland, and during the short administration of his
    uncle, Charles Greville, then quite a young man, had a sinecure
    office in the island of Jamaica bestowed upon him, and was made
    Clerk of the Privy Council; which appointment, by giving him an
    assured position and handsome income for life, effectually put a
    stop to his real advancement at the very outset, by rendering all
    effort of ambition on his part unnecessary, and inducing him,
    instead of distinguishing himself by an honorable public career, to
    adopt the life and pursuits of a mere man of pleasure, ... and to
    waste his talents in the petty intrigues of society, and the
    excitements of the turf. He was an influential member of the London
    great world of his day; his clear good sense, excellent judgment,
    knowledge of the world, and science of expediency, combined with his
    good temper and ready friendliness, made him a sort of universal
    referee in the society to which he belonged. Men consulted him about
    their difficulties with men; and women, about their squabbles with
    women; and men and women, about their troubles with the opposite
    sex. He was called into the confidence of all manner of people, and
    trusted with the adjustment of all sorts of affairs. He knew the
    secrets of everybody, which everybody seemed willing that he should
    know; and he was one of the principal lawgivers of the turf. The
    publication of Charles Greville's Memoirs, which shocked the whole
    of London society, surprised, as much as it grieved, his friends,
    the character they revealed being painfully at variance with their
    impression of him, and not a little, in some respects, at variance
    with that of a gentleman.... Our small party at the Beeches was
    broken up on the occasion of this, my third visit, by our hostess's
    indisposition. She was seized with a violent attack of neuralgia in
    the head, to which she was subject, and by which she was compelled
    to take to her bed, and remain there in darkness and almost
    intolerable suffering for hours, and sometimes days together. I have
    known her prostrated by a paroxysm of this sort when she had invited
    a large party to dinner, and obliged to leave her husband to do the
    honors to their guests, while she betook herself to solitary
    confinement in a darkened room.

    On the present occasion the gentlemen guests took their departure
    for London, and I should have done the same, but that Mrs. Grote
    entreated me to remain, for the chance of her being soon rid of her
    torment. Towards the middle of the day she begged me to come to her
    room, when, feeling, I presume, some temporary relief, she presently
    began talking vehemently to me about a French opera of "The
    Tempest," by Halévy, I believe, which had just been produced in
    Paris, with Madame Rossi Sontag as Miranda, and Lablache as Caliban.
    Mrs. Grote was violent in her abuse of the composition, deploring,
    as I joined her in doing, that Mendelssohn should not have taken
    "The Tempest" for the subject of an opera, and so prevented less
    worthy composers from laying hands upon it.

    Towards this time Mrs. Grote became absorbed by a passionate
    enthusiasm for Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, of whom she was an
    idolatrous worshipper, and who frequently spent her days of leisure
    at the Beeches. Mrs. Grote engrossed Mademoiselle Jenny Lind in so
    curious a manner that, socially, the accomplished singer could
    hardly be approached but through her. She was kind enough to ask me
    twice to meet her, when Mendelssohn and herself were together at
    Burnham--an offer of a rare pleasure, of which I was unable to avail
    myself. I remember, about this time, a comical conversation I had
    with her, in which, after surveying and defining her social position
    and its various advantages, she exclaimed, "But I want some lords,
    Fanny. Can't you help me to some lords?" I told her, laughingly,
    that I thought the lady who held watch and ward over Mademoiselle
    Jenny Lind might have as many lords at her feet as she pleased....

    Besides her literary and artistic tastes, she took a keen interest
    in politics, and among other causes for the slight esteem in which
    she not unnaturally held my intellectual capacity was my ignorance
    of, and indifference to, anything connected with party politics,
    especially as discussed in coteries and by coterie queens.

    Great questions of European policy, and the important movements of
    foreign governments, or our own, in matters tending to affect the
    general welfare and progress of humanity, had a profound interest
    for me; but I talked so little on such subjects, as became the
    profundity of my ignorance, that Mrs. Grote supposed them altogether
    above my sympathy, and probably above my comprehension.

    I remember very well, one evening at her own house, I was working at
    some embroidery (I never saw her with that feminine implement, a
    needle, in her fingers, and have a notion she despised those who
    employed it, and the results they achieved), and I was listening
    with perfect satisfaction to an able and animated discussion between
    Mr. Grote, Charles Greville, Mr. Senior, and a very intelligent
    Piedmontese then staying at the Beeches, on the aspect of European
    politics, and more especially of Italian affairs, when Mrs. Grote,
    evidently thinking the subject too much for me, drew her chair up to
    mine, and began a condescending conversation about matters which she
    probably judged more on a level with my comprehension; for she
    seemed both relieved and surprised when I stopped her kind effort to
    entertain me at once, thanking her, and assuring her that I was
    enjoying extremely what I was listening to.

    Some time after this, however, I must say I took a mischievous
    opportunity of purposely confirming her poor opinion of my brains;
    for on her return from Paris, where she had been during Louis
    Napoleon's coup d'état, she offered to show me Mr. Senior's
    journal, kept there at the same time, and recording all the
    remarkable and striking incidents of that exciting period of French
    affairs. This was a temptation, but it was a greater one to
    me--being, as Madame de Sévigné says of herself, méchante ma
    fille--to make fun of Mrs. Grote; and so, comforting myself with
    thinking that this probably highly interesting and instructive
    record, kept by Mr. Senior, would be sure to be published, and was
    then in manuscript (a thing which I abhor), I quietly declined the
    offer, looking as like Audrey when she asks "What is poetical?" as I
    could: to which Mrs. Grote, with an indescribable look, accent, and
    gesture of good-humored contempt, replied, "Ah, well, it might not
    interest you; I dare say it wouldn't. It is political, to be sure;
    it is political."

    This is the second very clever woman, to whom I know my intelligence
    had been vaunted, to whom I turned out completely "Paradise Lost,"
    as my mother's comical old acquaintance, Lady Dashwood King, used to
    say to Adelaide of me: "Ah, yes, I know your sister is vastly
    clever, exceedingly intelligent, and all that kind of thing, but she
    is 'Paradise Lost' to me, my dear." I sometimes regretted having
    hidden my small light under a bushel as entirely as I did, in the
    little intercourse I had with the first Lady Ashburton, Lady Harriet
    Montague, with whom some of my friends desired that I should become
    acquainted, and who asked me to her house in London, and to the
    Grange, having been assured that there was something in me, and
    trying to find it out, without ever succeeding.

    Mrs. Grote had generally a very contemptuous regard for the capacity
    of her female friends. She was extremely fond of my sister, but
    certainly had not the remotest appreciation of her great cleverness;
    and on one occasion betrayed the most whimsical surprise when
    Adelaide mentioned having received a letter from the great German
    scholar Waelcker. "Who? what? you? Waelcker, write to you!"
    exclaimed Grota, in amazement more apparent than courteous, it
    evidently being beyond the wildest stretch of her imagination that
    one of the most learned men in Europe, and profoundest scholars of
    Germany, could be a correspondent of my sister's, and a devoted
    admirer of her brilliant intelligence.

    Mrs. Grote's appearance was extremely singular; "striking" is, I
    think, the most appropriate word for it. She was very tall,
    square-built, and high-shouldered; her hands and arms, feet and legs
    (the latter she was by no means averse to displaying) were
    uncommonly handsome and well made. Her face was rather that of a
    clever man than a woman, and I used to think there was some
    resemblance between herself and our piratical friend Trelawney.

    Her familiar style of language among her intimates was something
    that could only be believed by those who heard it; it was technical
    to a degree that was amazing. I remember, at a dinner-party at her
    own table, her speaking of Audubon's work on ornithology, and saying
    that some of the incidents of his personal adventures, in the
    pursuit of his favorite science, had pleased her particularly;
    instancing, among other anecdotes, an occasion on which, as she
    said, "he was almost starving in the woods, you know, and found some
    kind of wild creature, which he immediately disembowelled and
    devoured." This, at dinner, at her own table, before a large party,
    was rather forcible. But little usual as her modes of expression
    were, she never seemed to be in the slightest degree aware of the
    startling effect they produced; she uttered them with the most
    straightforward unconsciousness and unconcern. Her taste in dress
    was, as might have been expected, slightly eccentric, but, for a
    person with so great a perception of harmony of sound, her passion
    for discordant colors was singular. The first time I ever saw her
    she was dressed in a bright brimstone-colored silk gown, made so
    short as to show her feet and ankles, having on her head a white
    satin hat, with a forest of white feathers; and I remember her
    standing, with her feet wide apart and her arms akimbo, in this
    costume before me, and challenging me upon some political question,
    by which, and her appearance, I was much astonished and a little
    frightened. One evening she came to my sister's house dressed
    entirely in black, but with scarlet shoes on, with which I suppose
    she was particularly pleased, for she lay on a sofa with her feet
    higher than her head, American fashion, the better to display or
    contemplate them. I remember, at a party, being seated by Sydney
    Smith, when Mrs. Grote entered with a rose-colored turban on her
    head, at which he suddenly exclaimed, "Now I know the meaning of the
    word grotesque!" The mischievous wit professed his cordial liking
    for both her and her husband, saying, "I like them, I like them; I
    like him, he is so ladylike; and I like her, she's such a perfect
    gentleman;" in which, however, he had been forestalled by a person
    who certainly n'y entendait pas malice, Mrs. Chorley, the meekest
    and gentlest of human beings, who one evening, at a party at her
    son's house, said to him, pointing out Mrs. Grote, who was dressed
    in white, "Henry, my dear, who is the gentleman in the white muslin
    gown?"]

You ask me, dear H----, about Lady Francis's visit. She did not come, as she had proposed doing,
on the Friday, for she caught the influenza, and was extremely unwell for a few days; she was
here on Monday, coughing incessantly and looking ill. In the course of our conversation, she
exclaimed, "Education! bless me, I think of nothing else but the education of the poor. Don't
you find people have got to think and talk about nothing else? I protest, I don't." This made
me laugh, and you will understand why; but she didn't, and pressed me very much to tell her
what there was absurd in the matter to me: but I declined answering her, at least then and
there, as I could not enter into a full discussion of the subject, down to the roots of it,
just at that moment. But, as you will well comprehend, the circumstances that render this feverish
zeal for education comical, in some of its fine-lady advocates, are peculiarly strong in her
case, though she is in earnest enough, and thoroughly well-intentioned in whatever she does.
Unwittingly, they are serving the poor, as they certainly do not contemplate doing; for by
educating them, even as they are likely to do so, they will gradually prepare them, intelligently
and therefore irresistibly, to demand such changes in their political and social conditions
as they may now impotently desire, and will assuredly hereafter obtain; but not, I think, with
the entirely cordial acquiescence of their Tory educators.

We went to the opera the Saturday after you left us, but both the opera and the ballet were
indifferent performances.... Do you not know that to misunderstand and be misunderstood is
one of the inevitable conditions, and, I think, one of the especial purposes, of our existence?
The principal use of the affection of human beings for each other is to supply the want of
perfect comprehension, which is impossible. All the faith and love which we possess are barely
sufficient to bridge over the abyss of individualism which separates one human being from another;
and they would not or could not exist, if we really understood each other. God bless you, dear.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       CLARGES STREET, March 28th, 1841.
  DEAREST H----,

My Sunday's avocations being over, or rather----

Here a loud, double knock, and Emily's entrance cut short my sentence; and now that she is
gone, it is close upon time to dress for dinner. She bids me tell you that I am going to-morrow
to sit to the sun for my picture for you. I cannot easily conceive how you should desire a
daguerreotype of me; you certainly have never seen one, or you would not do so; as it is, I
think you will receive a severe shock from the real representation of the face you love so
well and know so little....

Emily and I went with the children to the Zoological Gardens the other day, where a fine, intelligent-looking
lioness appeared exceedingly struck with them, crouched, and made a spring at little Fan, which
made Anne scream, and Emily, and Amelia Twiss, who was with us, catch hold of the child. The
keeper assured us it was only play; but I was well pleased, nevertheless, that there was a
grating between that very large cat and the little white mouse of a plaything she contemplated.

I have no news to give you, dear H----. A list of our dinner and evening engagements would
be interminable, and not very profitable stuff for correspondence.

I breakfasted with Mr. Rogers the other morning, and met Lord Normanby, to whom I preferred
a request that he would procure for Henry an unattached company, by which he would obtain a
captain's rank and half-pay, and escape being sent to Canada, or, indeed, out of England at
all--which, in my father's present condition of health, is very desirable....

We hear of my sister's great success in Italy, in "Norma," from sources which can leave us
no doubt of it....

Good-bye, dearest H----. Here is a list of my immediately impending occupations--Monday, Emily
spends the evening with me, till I go to a party at Miss Rogers's; Tuesday, we go to the opera;
Wednesday, we dine with the M----s, and go in the evening to Mrs. Grote's; Thursday, dinner
at Mrs. Norton's; Friday, dine with Mrs. C----, who has a ball in the evening; Saturday, the
opera again: and so, pray don't say I am wasting my time, or neglecting my opportunities.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    CLARGES STREET, Thursday, April 2nd.
  DEAREST H----,

I wrote to you yesterday, but have half an hour of leisure, and will begin another letter to
you now. If it suffers interruption, I shall at any rate have made a start, and the end will
come in time, doubtless, if Heaven pleases....

My father is much in the same condition as when last I wrote to you.... You ask if he does
not begin to count the days till Adelaide's return [my sister was daily expected from Italy,
where she had just finished engagements at the Fenice, the San Carlo, and the Scala]: he speaks
of that event occasionally, with fervent hope and expectation; but he is seldom roused by anything
from the state of suffering self-absorption in which he lives for the most part....

I forget whether we have heard from Adelaide herself since you left us; but my father had a
letter the other day from C----, who sent him a detailed account of her success in "Norma,"
which by all accounts has indeed been very great.

One of C----'s proofs of it amused me not a little. He said that one night, when she was singing
it, although some of the royal family were in their box and appeared about to applaud, the
people could not restrain their acclamations, but broke out into vociferous bravos, contrary
to etiquette on such occasions, when it is usual for royalty to give the signal to public enthusiasm.

Doubtless this was a very great proof of her power over her fellow-creatures, and of the irresistible
human sympathies which are occasionally, even in such an atmosphere as that of a Neapolitan
theatre, with Bourbon royalty present, stronger than social conventionalities....

You ask if the new comedy ("London Assurance") is sufficiently successful to warrant the author's
purchase of Henry's horse. I heard, but of course cannot vouch for the truth of the report,
that his fixed remuneration was to be three hundred pounds for the piece; and when, as I also
hear (but again will not vouch for the truth of my story), besides Henry's, that he has bought
another horse, and, besides that other horse, a miraculous "Cab," and, besides that miraculous
"Cab," ordered no fewer than seven new coats, I think you will agree with me that the author
of "London Assurance," successful as his piece may be, ought to have found a deeper mine than
that is likely to prove to serve so many ends. When I expressed my disapprobation of Henry's
assisting by any means or in any way such boyish extravagance, he said that the lad had guardians;
and therefore I suppose he has property besides what may come of play-writing--for men's persons,
however pretty, are seldom put under guardianship of trustees; and Henry argued, in the proper
manly fashion, that the youth, having property, had also a right to be as foolish in the abuse
of it as he pleased, or as his guardians would let him.

We none of us went to see "Patter versus Clatter," after all, having all some previous engagement,
so that, though it was literally given for our special amusement, we were none of us there.

I have received no less than four American letters by the last steamer, and this, though a
welcome pleasure, is also a considerable addition to the things to be done. God bless you,
dearest H----. This letter was begun about three days ago, and now it is the second of April.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The young author of the clever play called "London Assurance" had a
    special interest for me from having been my brother Henry's
    schoolfellow at Westminster.... His career as a dramatic author and
    actor has won him a high and well-deserved reputation in both
    capacities, both in England and America.]

                                      CLARGES STREET, Friday, April 9th.
  MY DEAREST H----,

My father is just now much better; he has regained his appetite, and talks again of going out....

I can tell you nothing about my daguerreotype; for having gone, according to appointment, last
Monday, and waited, which I could ill afford to do, nearly three quarters of an hour, and finally
come away, there being apparently no chance of my turn arriving at all that day, I saw nothing
of it; and I think it was very well that it saw nothing of me, for such another sulky thunder-cloud
as my countenance presented under these circumstances seldom sat for its picture to Phoebus
Apollo, or any of his artist sons. I am to go again on Wednesday, and shall be able to tell
you something about it, I hope.

I have not seen Mr. T----'s sketch of the children. He is in high delight with it himself,
I believe; and, moreover, has undertaken, in the plenitude of his artistical enthusiasm, to
steal a likeness of me, putting me in a great arm-chair, with S---- standing on one side for
tragedy, and F---- perched on the opposite arm of the chair for comedy.

Lane was to have come here to draw the children this very evening; but it is half-past ten
and he has not been, and of course is not coming....

Good-bye, dear.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                  CLARGES STREET, Monday, May 3rd, 1841.

Thank you, dearest H----, for your prompt compliance with my request about your travelling
information.... About the daguerreotype, you know, I should have precisely the same objection
to taking another person's appointed time that I have to mine being appropriated by somebody
else; but Emily has made another appointment for me: she had made one for the day on which
my sister arrived, which rather provoked me; but I was resigned, nevertheless, because I had
told her I would go at any time she chose to name. She let me off, however; not, I believe,
from any compassion for me, but because my father had set his heart upon my going with him
to the private view of the new exhibition, just a quarter of an hour after the time I was to
have been at the daguerreotypist's. So to the gallery I went, an hour after Adelaide had returned
from Italy; as you know, I had not seen her for several years (indeed, not since my marriage).
And so to the gallery I went, with buzzing in my ears and dizziness in my eyes, and an hysterical
choking, which made me afraid to open my lips. Why my father was so anxious to go to this exhibition
I hardly know; but I went to please him, and came back to please myself, without having an
idea of a single picture in the whole collection. Emily has now made another appointment for
me, or rather for you, early on Wednesday morning, and I hope we shall accomplish something
at last.

Now you want to know something about Adelaide. There she sits in the next room at the piano,
singing sample-singing, and giving a taste of her quality to Charles Greville, who, you know,
is an influential person in all sorts of matters, and to whom Henry has written about her merits,
and probable acceptability with the fashionable musical world. She is singing most beautifully,
and the passionate words of love, longing, grief, and joy burst through that utterance of musical
sound, and light up her whole countenance with a perfect blaze of emotion. As for me, the tears
stream over my face all the time, and I can hardly prevent myself from sobbing aloud.... She
has grown very large, I think almost as large as I remember my mother; she looks very well
and very handsome, and has acquired something completely foreign in her tone and manner, and
even accent.... She complains of the darkness of our skies and the dulness of our mode of life
here as intolerable and oppressive to the last degree....

I cannot believe happiness to be the purpose of life, for when was anything ordained with an
unattainable purpose?... But life, which, but for duty, seems always sad enough to me, appears
sadder than usual when I try to look at it from the point of view of the happiness it contains.

The children are well; Lane has taken a charming likeness of them, of which I promise you a
copy. God bless you, dearest H----. I do not lean on human love; I do not depend or reckon
on it; nor have I ever MISTAKEN any human being for my best friend.

                              Affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               CLARGES STREET, May 21st.
  DEAREST H----,

From the midst of this musical Maelstrom I send you a voice, which, if heard instead of read,
would be lamentable enough. We are lifted off our feet by the perfect torrent of engagements,
of visits, of going out and receiving; our house is full, from morning till night, of people
coming to sing with or listen to my sister. How her strength is to resist the demands made
upon it by the violent emotions she is perpetually expressing, or how any human throat is to
continue pouring out such volumes of sound without rest or respite, passes my comprehension.
Now, let me tell you how I am surrounded at this minute while I write to you. At my very table
sit Trelawney and Charles Young, talking to me and to each other; farther on, towards my father,
Mr. G---- C----; and an Italian singer on one side of my sister; and on the other, an Italian
painter, who has brought letters of introduction to us; then Mary Anne Thackeray; ... furthermore,
the door has just closed upon an English youth of the name of B----, who sings almost as well
as an Italian, and with whom my sister has been singing her soul out for the last two hours....
We dined yesterday with the Francis Egertons; to-morrow evening we have a gathering here, with,
I beg you to believe, nothing under the rank of a viscount, Beauforts, Normanbys, Wiltons,
illustrissimi tutti quanti. Friday, my sister sings at the Palace, and we are all enveloped
in a golden cloud of fashionable hard work, which rather delights my father; which my sister
lends herself to, complaining a little of the trouble, fatigue, and late hours; but thinking
it for the interest of her future public career, and always becoming rapt and excited beyond
all other considerations in her own capital musical performances.... As for me, I am rather
bewildered by the whirl in which we live, which I find rather a trying contrast to my late
solitary existence in America.... The incessant music wears upon my nerves a great deal; but
chiefly, I think, because half the time I am not able to listen to it quietly, and it distracts
me while I am obliged to attend to other things. But indeed, often, when I can give my undivided
attention to it, my sister's singing excites me to such a degree that I am obliged, after crying
my bosom full of tears, to run out of the room.

My father continues in wonderful good looks and spirits.... Here, dear H----, a long interruption....
We are off to St. John's Wood, to dine with the Procters: ---- is not ready; my sister is lying
on the sofa, reading aloud an Italian letter to me; the children are rioting about the room
like a couple of little maniacs, and I feel inclined to endorse Macbeth's opinion of life,
that it is all sound and fury and signifying nothing.... Thus far, and another interruption;
and now it is to-morrow, and Lady Grey and Lady G---- have just gone out of the room, and Chauncy
Hare Townsend has just come in, followed by his mesmeric German patient, who is going to perform
his magnetic magic for us. I think I will let him try what sort of a subject I should be.

I enclose a little note and silk chain, brought for you from America by Miss Fanny Appleton
[afterwards Mrs. Longfellow], who has just arrived in London, to the great joy of her sister.
I suppose these tokens come to you from the Sedgwicks. I have a little box which poor C----
S---- brought from Catherine for you--a delicate carved wooden casket, that I have not sent
to you because I was afraid it would be broken, by any post or coach conveyance. Tell me about
this, how I shall send it to you. I have obtained too for you that German book which I delight
in so very much, Richter's "Fruit, Flower, and Thorn Pieces," and which, in the midst of much
that is probably too German, in thought, feeling, and expression, to meet with your entire
sympathy, will, I think, furnish you with sweet and pleasant thoughts for a while; I scarce
know anything that I like much better.

I was going to see Rachel this evening, but my brother and his wife having come up to town
for the day, I do not think we ought all to go out and leave them; so that ---- is gone with
Adelaide and Lady M----, and I shall seize this quiet chance for writing to Emily, to whom
I have not yet contrived to send a word since she left town. God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The young lad Alexis, to whom I have referred in this letter was, I
    think, one of the first of the long train of mesmerists,
    magnetizers, spiritualists, charlatans, cheats, and humbugs who
    subsequently appealed to the notice and practised on the credulity
    of London society. Mr. Chauncy Hare Townsend was an enthusiastic
    convert to the theory of animal magnetism, and took about with him,
    to various houses, this German boy, whose exhibition of mesmeric
    phenomena was the first I ever witnessed. Mr. Townsend had almost
    insisted upon our receiving this visit, and we accordingly assembled
    in the drawing-room, to witness the powers of Alexis. We were all of
    us sceptical, one of our party so incurably so that after each
    exhibition of clairvoyance given by Alexis, and each exclamation of
    Mr. Townsend's, "There now, you see that?" he merely replied, with
    the most imperturbable phlegm, "Yes, I see it, but I don't believe
    it." The clairvoyant power of the young man consisted principally in
    reading passages from books presented to him while under the
    influence of the mesmeric sleep, into which he had been thrown by
    Mr. Townsend, and with which he was previously unacquainted. The
    results were certainly sufficiently curious, though probably neither
    marvellous nor unaccountable. To make sure that his eyes were really
    effectually closed, cotton-wool was laid over them, and a broad,
    tight bandage placed upon them; during another trial the hands of
    our chief sceptic were placed upon his eyelids, so as effectually to
    keep them completely closed, in spite of which he undoubtedly read
    out of a book held up before him above his eyes, and rather on a
    level with his forehead; nor can I remember any instance in which he
    appeared to find any great difficulty in doing so, except when a
    book suddenly fetched from another room was opened before him, when
    he hesitated and expressed incapacity, and then said, "The book is
    French;" which it was.

    Believing entirely in a sort of hitherto undefined, and possibly
    undefinable, physical influence, by which the nervous system of one
    person may be affected by that of another, by special exercise of
    will and effort, so as to produce an almost absolute temporary
    subserviency of the whole nature to the force by which it is acted
    upon, and therefore thinking it extremely possible, and not
    improbable, that many of the instances of mesmeric influence I have
    heard related had some foundation in truth, I have, nevertheless,
    kept entirely aloof from the whole subject, never voluntarily
    attended any exhibitions of such phenomena, and regarded the whole
    series of experiments and experiences and pretended marvels of the
    numerous adepts in mesmerism with contempt and disgust--contempt for
    the crass ignorance and glaring dishonesty involved in their
    practices; and disgust, because of the moral and physical mischief
    their absurd juggleries were likely to produce, and in many
    instances did produce, upon subjects as ignorant, but less
    dishonest, than the charlatans by whom they were duped.

    The thing having, in my opinion, a very probable existence, possibly
    a physical force of considerable effect, and not thoroughly
    ascertained or understood nature, the experiments people practised
    and lent themselves to appeared to me exactly as wise and as
    becoming as if they had drunk so much brandy or eaten so much opium
    or hasheesh, by way of trying the effect of these drugs upon their
    constitution; with this important difference that the magnetic
    experiments severely tested the nervous system of both patient and
    operator, and had, besides, an indefinite element of moral
    importance, in the attempted control of one human will by another,
    through physical means, which appeared to me to place all such
    experiments at once among things forbidden to rational and
    responsible agents.

    I am now speaking only of the early developments of physical
    phenomena exhibited by the first magnetizers and mesmerizers--the
    conjurers by passes and somnolence and other purely physical
    processes; the crazy and idiotic performances of their successors,
    the so-called spiritualists, with their grotesque and disgusting
    pretence of intercourse with the spirits of the dead through the
    legs of their tables and chairs, seemed to me the most melancholy
    testimony to an utter want of faith in things spiritual, of belief
    in God and Christ's teaching, and a pitiful craving for such a
    faith, as well as to the absence of all rational common sense, in
    the vast numbers of persons deluded by such processes. In this
    aspect (the total absence of right reason and real religion
    demonstrated by these ludicrous and blasphemous juggleries in our
    Christian communities), that which was farcical in the lowest degree
    became tragical in the highest. I only witnessed this one mesmeric
    exhibition, on the occasion of this visit paid to us by Mr. Townsend
    and Alexis, until several years afterwards, in the house of my
    excellent friend Mr. Combe, in Edinburgh, when I was one of a party
    called upon to witness some experiments of the same kind. I was
    staying with Mr. Combe and my cousin Cecilia, when one evening their
    friend Mrs. Crow, authoress of more than one book, I believe, and of
    a collection of supernatural horrors, of stories of ghosts,
    apparitions, etc., etc., called "The Night Side of Nature" (the
    lady had an evident sympathy for the absurd and awful), came,
    bringing with her a Dr. Lewis, a negro gentleman, who was creating
    great excitement in Edinburgh by his advocacy of the theories of
    mesmerism, and his own powers of magnetizing. Mrs. Crow had
    threatened Mr. and Mrs. Combe with a visit from this professor,
    and though neither of them had the slightest tendency to belief in
    any such powers as those Dr. Lewis laid claim to, they received him
    with kindly courtesy, and consented, with the amused indifference of
    scepticism, to be spectators of his experiments. Under these
    circumstances, great as was my antipathy to the whole thing, I did
    not like to raise any objection to it or to leave the room, which
    would have been a still more marked expression of my feeling; so I
    sat down with the rest of the company round the drawing-room table,
    Mr. and Mrs. Combe, Dr. Lewis, Mrs. Crow, our friend Professor
    William Gregory, and Dr. Becker--the latter gentleman a man of
    science, brother, I think, to Prince Albert's private librarian--who
    was to be the subject of Dr. Lewis's experiments, having already
    lent himself for the same purpose to that gentleman, and been
    pronounced highly sensitive to the magnetic influence.

    I sat by Dr. Becker, and opposite to Dr. Lewis, with the width of
    the table between us. What ulterior processes were to be exhibited I
    do not know, but the first result to be obtained was to throw Dr.
    Becker into a mesmeric state of somnolence, under the influence of
    the operator. The latter presently began his experiment, and,
    drawing entirely from his coat and shirt sleeve a long, lithe, black
    hand, the finger-tips of which were of that pale livid tinge so
    common in the hands of negroes, he directed it across the table
    towards Dr. Becker, and began slowly making passes at him. We were
    all profoundly still and silent, and, in spite of my disgust, I
    watched the whole scene with considerable interest. By degrees the
    passes became more rapid, and the hand was stretched nearer and
    nearer towards its victim, waving and quivering like some black
    snake, while the face of the operator assumed an expression of the
    most concentrated powerful purpose, which, combined with his sable
    color and the vehement imperative gestures which he aimed at Dr.
    Becker, really produced a quasi-diabolical effect. The result,
    however, was not immediate. Dr. Becker was apparently less
    susceptible this evening than on previous occasions; but Dr. Lewis
    renewed and repeated his efforts, each time with a nearer approach
    and increased vehemence, and at length his patient's eyelids began
    to quiver, he gasped painfully for breath, and was evidently
    becoming overpowered by the influence to which he had subjected
    himself; when, after a few seconds of the most intense efforts on
    the part of Dr. Lewis, these symptoms passed off, and the
    mesmerizer, with much appearance of exhaustion, declared himself,
    for some reason or other, unable to produce the desired effect
    (necessary for the subsequent exhibition of his powers) of
    compelling Dr. Becker into a state of somnolency--a thing which he
    had not failed to accomplish on every previous occasion. The trial
    had to be given up, and much speculation and discussion followed as
    to the probable cause of the failure, for which neither the
    magnetizer nor his patient could account. Believing in this strange
    action of nervous power in one person over another, I am persuaded
    that I prevented Dr. Lewis's experiment from succeeding. The whole
    exhibition had from the very beginning aroused in me such a feeling
    of antagonism, such a mingled horror, disgust, and indignation,
    that, when my neighbor appeared about to succumb to the influence
    operating upon him, my whole nature was roused to such a state of
    active opposition to the process I was witnessing that I determined,
    if there was power in human will to make itself felt by mere silent
    concentrated effort of purpose, I would prevent Dr. Lewis from
    accomplishing his end; and it seemed to me, as I looked at him, as
    if my whole being had become absorbed in my determination to defeat
    his endeavor to set Dr. Becker to sleep. The nervous tension I
    experienced is hardly to be described, and I firmly believe that I
    accomplished my purpose. I was too much exhausted, after we left the
    table, to speak, and too disagreeably affected by the whole scene to
    wish to do so.

    The next day I told Mr. Combe of my counter-magnetizing, or rather
    neutralizing, experiment, by which he was greatly amused; but I do
    not think he cared to enter upon any investigation of the subject,
    feeling little interested in it, and having been rather surprised
    into this exhibition of it by Mrs. Crow's bringing Dr. Lewis to his
    house. That lady being undoubtedly an admirable subject for all such
    experiments, having what my dear Mr. Combe qualified as "a most
    preposterous organ of wonder," for which, poor woman, I suppose she
    paid the penalty in a terrible nervous seizure, a fit of temporary
    insanity, during which she imagined that she received a visit from
    the Virgin Mary and our Saviour, both of whom commanded her to go
    without any clothes on into the streets of Edinburgh, and walk a
    certain distance in that condition, in reward for which the sins and
    sufferings of the whole world would be immediately alleviated. Upon
    her demurring to fulfil this mandate, she received the further
    assurance that if she took her card-case in her right hand and her
    pocket-handkerchief in her left, her condition of nudity would be
    entirely unobserved by any one she met. Under the influence of her
    diseased fancy, Mrs. Crow accordingly went forth, with nothing on
    but a pair of boots, and being immediately rescued from the terrible
    condition of mad exposure, in which she had already made a few paces
    in the street where she lived, and carried back into her house, she
    exclaimed, "Oh, I must have taken my card-case and my handkerchief
    in the wrong hands, otherwise nobody would have seen me!" She
    recovered entirely from this curious attack of hallucination, and I
    met her in society afterwards, perfectly restored to her senses.

    On one occasion I allowed myself to be persuaded into testing my own
    powers of mesmerizing, by throwing a young friend into a magnetic
    sleep. I succeeded with considerable difficulty, and the next day
    experienced great nervous exhaustion, which, I think, was the
    consequence of her having, as she assured me she had, resisted with
    the utmost effort of her will my endeavor to put her to sleep. As I
    disapproved, however, of all such experiments, this is the only one
    I ever tried.

    My belief in the reality of the influence was a good deal derived
    from my own experience, which was that of an invariable tendency to
    sleep in the proximity of certain persons of whom I was particularly
    fond. I used to sit at Mrs. Harry Siddons's feet, and she had hardly
    laid her hand upon my head before it fell upon her knees, and I was
    in a profound slumber. My friend Miss ----'s neighborhood had the
    same effect upon me, and when we were not engaged in furious
    discussion, I was very apt to be fast asleep whenever I was near
    her. E---- S---- relieved me of an intense toothache once by putting
    me to sleep with a few mesmeric passes, and I have, moreover, more
    than once, immediately after violent nervous excitement, been so
    overcome with drowsiness as to be unable to move. I remember a most
    ludicrous instance of this occurring to me in the church of
    Stratford-upon-Avon, when, standing before Shakespeare's tomb, and
    looking intensely at his monument, I became so overpowered with
    sleep that I could hardly rouse myself enough to leave the church,
    and I begged very hard to be allowed to sleep out my sleep, then and
    there, upon the stones under which he lay.

    After extreme distress of mind, I have sometimes slept a whole day
    and night without waking; and once, when overcome with anguish,
    slept, with hardly an hour's interval at a time, the greater part of
    a week. The drowsiness inspired in me by some of my friends I
    attribute entirely to physical sympathy; others, of whom I was
    nearly as fond, never affected me in this manner in the slightest
    degree. I have often congratulated myself upon the fact that I had
    by no means an equal tendency to physical antipathy, though, in
    common with most other people, I have had some experience of that
    also. My very dear and excellent friend ---- always m'agaçait les
    nerfs, as French people say, though I was deeply attached to her
    and very fond of her society. Mrs. ----, of whose excellence I had
    the most profound conviction, and who was generally esteemed
    perfectly charming by her intimates, affected me with such a curious
    intuitive revulsion that the first time she came and sat down by me
    I was obliged to get up and leave the room--indeed, the house. Two
    men of our acquaintance, remarkable for their general attractiveness
    and powers of pleasing, ---- and ----, were never in the same room
    ten minutes with me without my becoming perfectly chilled through,
    as though I had suddenly had the door of an ice-house opened upon
    me. They were entirely dissimilar men in every respect....

    Of the spiritualistic performances of Messrs. Hume, Foster, etc.,
    etc., I never was a witness. An intimate acquaintance of mine, who
    knew Hume well, assured me that she knew him to be an impostor,
    adding at the same time, "But I also know him to be clairvoyant,"
    which seemed to me mere tautology.

    My sister and Charles Greville, having had their curiosity excited
    by some of the reports of Mr. Foster's performances, agreed to go
    together to visit him, and having received an appointment for a
    séance, went to his house. Certainly, if Mr. Foster had taken in
    either of those two customers of his, it would have gone near
    converting me. Charles Greville, who was deaf, and spoke rather loud
    in consequence of that infirmity, said, as he entered, to my sister,
    "I shall ask him about my mother." Adelaide, quite determined to
    test the magician's powers to the utmost, replied, with an air of
    concern, as if shocked at the idea, "Oh, no, don't do that; it is
    too dreadful." However, this suggestion of course not being thrown
    away upon Mr. Foster, Charles Greville desired to be put in
    communication with the spirit of his mother, which was accordingly
    duly done by the operator, and various messages were delivered, as
    purporting to come from the spirit of Lady Charlotte Greville to her
    son. After this farce had gone on for a little while, Charles
    Greville turned to my sister with perfect composure, and said,
    "Well, now perhaps you had better ask him to tell you something
    about your mother, because, you know, mine is not dead." The
    séance of course proceeded no further. At an earlier period of it,
    as they were sitting round a table, Mr. Foster desired that written
    names might be furnished him of the persons with whose spirits
    communication might be desired. Among the names written down for
    this purpose by my sister were several foreign, Italian and German,
    names, with which she felt very sure Mr. Foster could not possibly
    have any acquaintance; indeed, it was beyond all question that he
    never could have heard of them. Adelaide was sitting next to him,
    watching his operations with extreme attention, and presently
    observed him very dexterously convey several of these foreign names
    into his sleeve, and from thence to the ground under the table.
    After a little while, Mr. Foster observed that, singularly enough,
    several of the names he had received were now missing, and by some
    extraordinary means had disappeared entirely from among the rest.
    "Oh yes," said my sister very quietly, "but they are only under the
    table, just where you put them a little while ago." With such
    subjects of course Mr. Foster performed no miracles.

    Some years ago a new form of these objectionable practices came into
    vogue, and one summer, going up into Massachusetts, I found the two
    little mountain villages of Lenox and Stockbridge possessed, in the
    proper sense of the term, by a devil of their own making, called
    "Planchette." A little heart-shaped piece of wood, running upon
    castors, and that could almost be moved with a breath, and carrying
    along a sheet of paper, over which it was placed, a pencil was
    supposed to write, on its own inspiration, communications in reply
    to the person's thoughts whose finger-tips were to rest above,
    without giving any impulse to the board. Of course a hand held in
    this constrained attitude is presently compelled to rest itself by
    some slight pressure; the effort to steady it, and the nervous
    effort not to press upon the machine, producing inevitably in the
    wrist aching weariness, and in the fingers every conceivable
    tendency to nervous twitching. Add to this the intense conviction of
    the foolish folk, half of them hysterical women, that their
    concentrated effort of will was, in combination with a mysterious
    supernatural agency, to move the board; and the board naturally not
    only moved but, carrying the pencil along with it, wrote the answers
    required and desired by the credulous consulters of the wooden
    oracle.

    The thing would have been indescribably ludicrous but for the
    terrible effect it was having upon the poor people who were
    practising upon themselves with it. Excitable young girls of fifteen
    and sixteen, half hysterical with their wonderment; ignorant,
    afflicted women, who had lost dear relations and friends by death;
    superstitious lads, and men too incapable of consecutive reasoning
    to perceive the necessary connection between cause and effect; the
    whole community, in short, seemed to me catching the credulous
    infection one from another, and to be in a state bordering upon
    insanity or idiocy.

    A young lady-friend of mine, a miserable invalid, was so possessed
    with faith in this wooden demon that, after resisting repeated
    entreaties on her part to witness some of its performances, I at
    length, at her earnest request, saw her operate upon it. The writing
    was almost unintelligible, and undoubtedly produced by the vibrating
    impulse given to the machine by her nervous, feeble, diaphanous
    hands. Finding my scepticism invincible by these means, my friend
    implored me to think in my own mind a question, and see if
    Planchette would not answer it. I yielded at last to her all but
    hysterical importunity, and thought of an heraldic question
    concerning the crest on a ring which I wore, which I felt was quite
    beyond Planchette's penetration; but while we sat in quiet
    expectation of the reply, which of course did not come, my friend's
    mother--a sober, middle-aged lady, habitually behaving herself with
    perfect reasonableness, and, moreover, without a spark of
    imagination (but that, indeed, was rather of course; belief in such
    supernatural agencies betokening, in my opinion, an absence of
    poetical imagination, as well as of spiritual faith), practical,
    sensible, commonplace, without a touch of nonsense of any kind about
    her, as I had always supposed--sat opposite the machine infernale,
    over which her daughter's fingers hung suspended, and as the answer
    did not come, broke out for all the world like one of Baal's
    prophets of old: "Now, Planchette, now, Planchette, behave; do your
    duty. Now, Planchette, write at once," etc.; and I felt as if I were
    in Bedlam. One thing is certain, that if Planchette's answer had
    approached in the remotest degree the answer to the question of my
    thought, I would then and there have broken Planchette in half, and
    left my friends in the possession of their remaining brains until
    they had procured another.

    The strangest experience, however, that I met with in connection
    with this absurd delusion occurred during a visit that I received
    from Mrs. B---- S----. That lady was staying with her daughter in
    Stockbridge, and did me the honor to call on me at Lenox with that
    young lady. Among other things spoken of I asked my distinguished
    visitor some questions about this superstitious folly, Planchette,
    nothing doubting that I should hear from her an eloquent
    condemnation of all the absurd proceedings going on in the two
    villages. The lady's face assumed a decided expression of grave
    disapprobation, certainly, and she spoke to this effect:
    "Planchette! Oh dear, yes, we are perfectly familiar with
    Planchette, and, indeed, have been in the habit of consulting it
    quite often." "Oh, indeed," quoth I, and I felt my own face growing
    longer with amazement as I spoke. "Yes," continued my celebrated
    visitor, with much deliberation, "we have; but I think it will no
    longer be possible for us to do so. No, we must certainly give up
    having anything to do with it." "Dear me!" said I, almost
    breathless, and with a queer quaver in my voice, that I could hardly
    command, "may I ask why, pray?" "The language it uses----"
    "It!--the language it uses!" ejaculated I. "Yes," she pursued,
    with increasing solemnity, "the language it uses is so reprehensible
    that it will be quite impossible for us to consult or have anything
    further to do with it." "Really," said I, hardly able to utter for
    suppressed laughter; "and may I ask, may I inquire what language it
    does use?" "Why," returned Mrs. S----, with some decorous hesitation
    and reluctance to utter the words that followed, "the last time we
    consulted it, it told us we were all a pack of damned fools." "Oh!"
    exploded I, "I believe in Planchette, I believe in Planchette!" Mrs.
    S---- drew herself up with an air of such offended surprise at my
    burst of irrepressible merriment that I suddenly stopped, and
    letting what was boiling below my laughter come to the surface, I
    exclaimed, in language far more shocking to ears polite than
    Planchette's own: "And do you really think that Satan, the great
    devil of hell, in whom you believe, is amusing himself with telling
    you such truths as those, through a bit of board on wheels?"
    "Really," replied the woman of genius, in a tone of lofty dignity,
    "I cannot pretend to say whether or not it is the devil; of one
    thing I am very certain, the influence by which it speaks is
    undoubtedly devilish." I turned in boundless amazement to the
    younger lady, whose mischievous countenance, with a broad grin upon
    it, at once settled all my doubts as to the devilish influence under
    which Planchette had spoken such home truths to her family circle,
    and I let the subject drop, remaining much astonished, as I often
    am, at the degree to which les gens d'ésprit sont bêtes.

    I once attended some young friends to a lecture, as it called
    itself, upon electro-biology. It was tedious, stupid, and
    ridiculous; the only thing that struck me was the curious condition
    of bewildered imbecility into which two or three young men, who
    presented themselves to be operated upon, fell, under the influence
    of the lecturer. I had reason to believe that there was no collusion
    in the case, and therefore was surprised at the evident state of
    stupor and mental confusion (even to the not being able to pronounce
    their own name) which they exhibited when, after looking intently
    and without moving at a coin placed in their hand for some time,
    their faculties appeared entirely bewildered, and though they were
    not asleep, they seemed hardly conscious, and opposed not the
    slightest resistance to the orders they received to sit down, stand
    up, to try to remember their names,--which they were assured they
    could not, and did not,--and their general submission, of course in
    very trifling matters, to the sort of bullying directions addressed
    to them in a loud peremptory tone; to which they replied with the
    sort of stupefied languor of persons half asleep or under the
    influence of opium. I did not quite understand how they were thrown
    into this curious condition by the mere assumption of an immovable
    attitude and fixed gazing at a piece of coin; an experience of my
    own, however, subsequently enlightened me as to the possible nervous
    effect of such immobility and strained attention.

    My friend Sir Frederick Leighton, despairing of finding a model to
    assume a sufficiently dramatic expression of wickedness for a
    picture he was painting of Jezebel, was deploring his difficulty one
    day, when Henry Greville, who was standing by, said to him, "Why
    don't you ask her"--pointing to me--"to do it for you?" Leighton
    expressed some kindly reluctance to put my countenance to such a
    use; but I had not the slightest objection to stand for Jezebel, if
    by so doing I could help him out of his dilemma. So to his studio I
    went, ascended his platform, and having been duly placed in the
    attitude required, and instructed on what precise point of the wall
    opposite to me to fix my eyes, I fell to thinking of the scene the
    picture represented, of the meeting between Ahab and his wicked
    queen with Elijah on the threshold of Naboth's vineyard,
    endeavoring, after my old stage fashion, to assume as thoroughly as
    possible the character which I was representing. Before I had
    retained the constrained attitude and fixed immovable gaze for more
    than a short time, my eyes grew dim, the wall I was glaring at
    seemed to waver about before me, I turned sick, a cold perspiration
    broke out on my forehead, my ears buzzed, my knees trembled, my
    heart throbbed, and I suppose I was not far from a fainting fit. I
    sat abruptly down on the platform, and called my friendly artist to
    my assistance, describing to him my sensations, and asking if he
    could explain what had occasioned them. He expressed remorseful
    distress at having subjected me to such annoyance, saying, however,
    that my condition was not an uncommon one for painters' models to be
    thrown into by the nervous strain of the fixed look and attention,
    and rigid immobility of position, required of them; that he had
    known men succumb to it on a first experiment, but had thought me so
    strong, and so little liable to any purely nervous affection, that
    it had never occurred to him for a moment that there was any danger
    of my being thus overcome.

    I recovered almost immediately, the nervous strain being taken off,
    and resumed my duty as a model, taking care to vary my expression
    and attitude whenever I felt at all weary, and resting myself by
    sitting down and lending another aspect of my face to my friend for
    his Elijah.

    I found, after this experience, no difficulty in understanding the
    state of bewildered stupefaction into which the lecturer on
    electro-biology had thrown his patients by demanding of them a fixed
    attention of mind, look, and attitude to a given point of
    contemplation. I think, just before I quite broke down, I could
    neither have said where I was, nor who I was, nor contradicted Sir
    Frederick Leighton if he had assured me that my name was Polly and
    that I was putting the kettle on.]

                                             CLARGES STREET, June, 1844.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I have not a morsel of letter-paper in my writing-book; do not, therefore, let your first glance
take offence at the poor narrow note-paper, on which our dear friend Emily is forever writing
to me, and which throws me into a small fury every time I get an affectionate communication
from her on it. Our drawing-room has only this instant emptied itself of a throng of morning
visitors, among whom my brother John and his wife, Mary Anne Thackeray, Dick Pigott, Sydney
Smith, and A---- C----....

My letter has suffered an interruption, dear Harriet; I had to go out and return all manner
of visits, took a walk with Adelaide in Kensington Gardens, went and dined quietly with M----
M----, and came back at half-past ten, to find Mr. C---- very quietly established here with
my father and sister....

This is to-morrow, my dear Harriet, and we are all engaged sitting to Lane, who is making medallion
likenesses of us all. John and his wife together in one sphere, their two little children in
another, ---- and I in one eternity, and our chicks in another, their two little profiles looking
so funny and so pretty, one just behind the other; my father, my sister, and Henry have each
their world to themselves in single blessedness. The likenesses are all good, and charmingly
executed. I should like to be able to send you mine and my children's, but as he will accept
no remuneration for them, and as time and trouble are the daily bread of an artist----

Here I was interrupted again, and obliged to put by my letter, which was begun last Thursday,
and it is now Sunday afternoon. Our drawing-room has just emptied itself of A---- M---- and
his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Grote, Mr. H----, young Mr. K---- of Frankfort, and Chorley. Mrs. Grote
brought with her Fanny Ellsler's little girl, a lovely child about seven years old....

I must tell you something of our event of yesterday. A concert was given for the benefit of
the Poles, the Duchess of Sutherland condescending to lend Stafford House, provided the assemblage
was quite select and limited to four hundred people; to accomplish which desirable point, and
at the same time make the thing answer its charitable purpose, the tickets were sold at first
at two guineas apiece, and on the morning itself of the concert at five guineas. Rachel was
to recite, Liszt to play, and my sister was requested to sing, which she agreed to do, the
occasion being semi-public and private, so to speak. A large assembly of our finest (and bluntest)
people was not a bad audience, in a worldly sense, for her début. She sang beautifully, and
looked beautiful, and was extremely admired and praised and petted.

The whole scene was one of the gayest and most splendid possible, the entertainment and assembly
taking place in the great hall and staircase of Stafford House, with its scarlet floor-cloths,
and marble stairs and balustrades, and pillars of scagliola, and fretted roof of gold and white,
and skylight surrounded and supported by gigantic gilt caryatides.

The wide noble flights of steps and long broad galleries, filled with brilliantly dressed groups;
with the sunlight raining down in streams on the panels and pillars of the magnificent hall,
on the beautiful faces of the women, and the soft sheen and brilliant varied coloring of their
clothes, and on perfect masses of flowers, piled in great pyramids of every form and hue in
every niche and corner, or single plants covered with an exquisite profusion of perfect bloom,
standing here and there in great precious china vases stolen from the Arabian Nights; it really
was one of the grandest and gayest shows you can imagine, more beautiful than Paul Veronese's
most splendid pictures, which it reminded one of.

My sister's singing overcame me dreadfully....

I must close this letter, my dear; my head is in such a state of confusion that I scarcely
know what I write; and if I keep it longer, you will never get it.

                              Yours ever truly----

(I don't know what I am saying; I love you affectionately, but I am almost beside myself with--everything.)

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                CLARGES STREET, Sunday, June 20th, 1841.

You know, dearest Harriet, my aversion to writing short letters; I have something of the same
feeling about that hateful little note-paper on which I have lately written to you. The sight
of these fair large squares laid on my table, and of at least six unanswered letters of yours,
prompts me to use this quiet half-hour--quiet by comparison only, for ----, Adelaide, and little
F---- are shouting all round me, and a distracting brass band, that I dote upon, is playing
tunes to which I am literally writing in time; nevertheless, in this house, this may be called
a moment of profoundest quiet.

I do not believe that you will have quarrelled much with the note-paper, because I certainly
filled it as well as I could; but I always feel insulted when anybody that I really care for
writes to me on those frivolous, insufficient-looking sheets. I suppose, if you have missed
Emily's Boswellian records of our sayings and doings here, you have received from her instead
epistles redolent of the sweetness of the country, whole nosegays of words, that have made
me gasp again for the grass and trees, and the natural enjoyments of life. Her affectionate
remembrance reaches me every day by penny post, a little envelope full of delicious orange-blossoms,
with which my clothes and everything about me are perfumed for the rest of the day.

You have not said much to me about the daguerreotype, nor did you ask me anything about the
process; but that, I suppose, is because Emily furnished you with so many more details than
I probably should, and with much more scientific knowledge to make her description clear. I
found it better looking than I had expected, but altogether different, which surprised me,
because I thought I knew my own face. It was less thick in the outlines than I had thought
it would be, but also older looking than I fancied myself, and it gave me a heavy jaw, which
I was not conscious of possessing. The process was wonderfully rapid; I think certainly not
above two minutes. I have seen several of Charles Young, which are admirable, and do not appear
to me exaggerated in any respect....

My father and Adelaide dined with the Macdonalds on Sunday; and Sir John, who, you know, is
adjutant-general, made her a kind of half promise that he would give Henry leave to come over
from Ireland and see her.

I believe the first time that S---- heard her aunt sing was one night after she was in bed
(she sleeps in my room, where one does not lose a note of the music below). When I went up,
I found her wide awake, and she started up in her bed, exclaiming, "Well, how many angels have
you got down there, I should like to know?"

I wrote thus much this morning, dear Harriet; this evening I have another quiet season in which
to resume my pen.... I have been obliged to give up my dinner engagement for to-day, and I
sat down by the failing light of half-past seven o'clock to eat a cold dinner alone, with a
book in my hand: which combination of circumstances reminded me so forcibly of my American
home, that I could hardly make out whether I was here or there.

So far yesterday, Thursday evening; it is now Friday morning. Adelaide has gone out with Mary
Anne Thackeray to buy cheap gowns at a bankrupt shop in Regent Street; the piano is silent,
and I can hear myself think, and have some consciousness of what I am writing about....

Dearest Harriet, it is now Sunday morning; there is a most stupendous row at the pianoforte,
and, luckily, there is no more space in this paper for my addled brains to testify to the effect
of this musical tempest. God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                             CLARGES STREET, Wednesday, June 23rd, 1841.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

You asked me some time ago some questions about Rachel, which I never answered, in the first
place because I had not seen her then, and since I have seen her I have had other things I
wanted to say. Everybody here is now raving about her. I have only seen her once on the stage,
and heard her declaim at Stafford House, the morning of the concert for the Poles. Her appearance
is very striking: she is of a very good height; too thin for beauty, but not for dignity or
grace; her want of chest and breadth indeed almost suggest a tendency to pulmonary disease,
coupled with her pallor and her youth (she is only just twenty). Her voice is the most remarkable
of her natural qualifications for her vocation, being the deepest and most sonorous voice I
ever heard from a woman's lips: it wants brilliancy, variety, and tenderness; but it is like
a fine, deep-toned bell, and expresses admirably the passions in the delineation of which she
excels--scorn, hatred, revenge, vitriolic irony, concentrated rage, seething jealousy, and
a fierce love which seems in its excess allied to all the evil which sometimes springs from
that bittersweet root. [I shall never forget the first time I ever heard Mademoiselle Rachel
speak. I was acting my old part of Julia, in "The Hunchback," at Lady Ellesmere's, where the
play was got up for an audience of her friends, and for her especial gratification. The room
was darkened, with the exception of our stage, and I had no means of discriminating anybody
among my audience, which was, as became an assembly of such distinguished persons, decorously
quiet and undemonstrative. But in one of the scenes, where the foolish heroine, in the midst
of her vulgar triumph at the Earl of Rochdale's proposal, is suddenly overcome by the remorseful
recollection of her love for Clifford, and almost lets the earl's letter fall from her trembling
hands, I heard a voice out of the darkness, and it appeared to me almost close to my feet,
exclaiming, in a tone the vibrating depth of which I shall never forget, "Ah, bien, bien, très
bien!"] Mademoiselle Rachel's face is very expressive and dramatically fine, though not absolutely
beautiful. It is a long oval, with a head of classical and very graceful contour; the forehead
rather narrow and not very high; the eyes small, dark, deep-set, and terribly powerful; the
brow straight, noble, and fine in form, though not very flexible.

I was immensely struck and carried away with her performance of "Hermione," though I am not
sure that some of the parts did not seem to me finer than the whole, as a whole conception.
That in which she is unrivalled by any actor or actress I ever saw is the expression of a certain
combined and concentrated hatred and scorn. Her reply to Andromaque's appeal to her, in that
play, was one of the most perfect things I have ever seen on the stage: the cold, cruel, acrid
enjoyment of her rival's humiliation,--the quiet, bitter, unmerciful exercise of the power
of torture, was certainly, in its keen incisiveness, quite incomparable. It is singular that
so young a woman should so especially excel in delineations and expressions of this order of
emotion, while in the utterance of tenderness, whether in love or sorrow, she appears comparatively
less successful; I am not, however, perhaps competent to pronounce upon this point, for Hermione
and Emilie, in Corneille's "Cinna," are not characters abounding in tenderness. Lady M----
saw her the other day in "Marie Stuart," and cried her eyes almost out, so she must have some
pathetic power. ---- was so enchanted with her, both on and off the stage, that he took me
to call upon her, on her arrival in London, and I was very much pleased with the quiet grace
and dignity, the excellent bon ton of her manners and deportment. The other morning too, at
Stafford House, I was extremely overcome at my sister's first public exhibition in England,
and was endeavoring, while I screened myself behind a pillar, to hide my emotion and talk with
some composure to Rachel; she saw, however, how it was with me, and with great kindness allowed
me to go into a room that had been appropriated to her use between her declamations, and was
very amiable and courteous to me.

She is completely the rage in London now; all the fine ladies and gentlemen crazy after her,
the Queen throwing her roses on the stage out of her own bouquet, and viscountesses and marchionesses
driving her about, à l'envie l'une de l'autre, to show her all the lions of the town. She is
miserably supported on the stage, poor thing, the corps dramatique engaged to act with her
being not only bad, but some of them (the principal hero, principally) irresistibly ludicrous.

By-the-by, I was assured, by a man who went to see the "Marie Stuart," that this worthy, who
enacted the part of Leicester, carried his public familiarity with Queen Elizabeth to such
lengths as to nudge her with his elbow on some particular occasion. Don't you think that was nice?

Mrs. Grote and I have had sundry small encounters, and I think I perceive that, had I leisure
to cultivate her acquaintance more thoroughly, I should like her very much. The other evening,
at her own house, she nearly killed me with laughing, by assuring me that she had always had
a perfect passion for dancing, and that she had entirely missed her vocation, which ought to
have been that of an opera-dancer; (now, Harriet, she looks like nothing but Trelawney in petticoats.)
I suppose this is the secret of her great delight in Ellsler.

I find, in an old letter of yours that I was reading over this morning, this short question:
"Does imagination make a fair balance, in heightening our pains and our pleasures?" That would
depend, I suppose, upon whether we had as many pleasures as pains (real ones, I mean) to be
colored by it; but as the mere possession of an imaginative temperament is in itself a more
fertile source of unreal pains than pleasures, the answer may be short too; an imaginative
mind has almost always a tendency to be a melancholy one. Shakespeare is the glorious exception
to this, but then he is an exception to everything. I must bid you good-bye now....

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever your affectionate,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [After seeing Mademoiselle Rachel, as I subsequently did, in all her
    great parts, and as often as I had an opportunity of doing so, the
    impression she has left upon my mind is that of the greatest
    dramatic genius, except Kean, who was not greater, and the most
    incomparable dramatic artist I ever saw. The qualities I have
    mentioned as predominating in her performances still appear to me to
    have been their most striking ones; but her expressions of
    tenderness, though rare, were perfect--one instance of which was the
    profound pathos of the short exclamation, "Oh, mon cher, Curiace!"
    that precedes her fainting fit of agony in "Camille," and the whole
    of the last scene of "Marie Stuart," in which she excelled Madame
    Ristori as much in pathetic tenderness as she surpassed her in
    power, in the famous scene of defiance to Elizabeth. As for any
    comparison between her and that beautiful woman and charming
    actress, or her successor on the French stage of the present day,
    Mademoiselle Sarah Bernhardt, I do not admit any such for a moment.]

                                            Bannisters, July 28th, 1841.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

You certainly have not thought that I was never going to write to you again, but I dare say
you have wondered when I should ever write to you again. This seems a very fitting place whence
to address you, who are so affectionately associated with the recollection of the last happy
days I spent here.

How vain is the impatience of despondency! How wise, as well as how pleasant, it is to hope!
Not that all can who would; but I verily believe that the hopeful are the wisest as well as
the happiest of this mortal congregation; for, in spite of the credulous distrust of the desponding,
the accomplishment of our wishes awaits us in the future quite as often as their defeat, and
the cheerful faithful spirit of those who can hope has the promise of this life as well as
of that which is to come.

At the end of four years, here I am again with my dear friend Emily, even in this lovely home
of hers, from which a doom, ever at hand, has threatened to expel her every day of these four
years.... In spite of separation, distance, time, and the event which stands night and day
at her door, threatening to drive her forth from this beloved home, here we are again together,
enjoying each other's fellowship in these familiar beautiful scenes: walking, driving, riding,
and living together, as we have twice been permitted to do before, as we are now allowed to
do again, to the confusion of all the depressing doubts which have prevented this fair prospect
from ever rising before my eyes with the light of hope upon it--so little chance did there
seem of its ever being realized.

Emily and I rode to Netley Abbey yesterday, and looked at the pillar on which your name and
ours were engraved with so many tears before my last return to America. If I had had a knife,
I would have rewritten the record, at least deepened it; but, indeed, it seems of little use
to do so while the soft, damp breath of the air suffices to efface it from the stone, and while
every stone of the beautiful ruin is a memento to each one of us of the other two, and the
place will be to all time haunted by our images, and by thoughts as vivid as bodily presences
to the eyes of whichever of us may be there without the others....

Our plans are assuming very definite shape, and you will probably be glad to hear that there
is every prospect of our spending another year in England, inasmuch as we are at this moment
in treaty for a house which we think of taking with my father for that time. My sister has
concluded an extremely agreeable and advantageous engagement with Covent Garden, for a certain
number of nights, at a very handsome salary. This is every way delightful to me; it keeps her
in England, among her friends, and in the exercise of her profession; it places her where she
will meet with respect and kindness, both from the public and the members of the profession
with whom she will associate. Covent Garden is in some measure our vantage-ground, and I am
glad that she should thence make her first appeal to an English audience.

Our new house (if we get it) is in Harley Street, close to Cavendish Square, and has a room
for you, of course, dearest Harriet; and you will come and see my sister's first appearance,
and stay with me next winter, as you did last. Our more immediate plans stand thus: we leave
this sweet and dear place, to our great regret, to-morrow; to-morrow night and part of Thursday
we spend at Addleston with my brother; then we remain in town till Monday, when we go to the
Hoo (Lord Dacre's); then we return to town, and afterwards proceed to Mrs. Arkwright's at Sutton,
and then to the Francis Egertons', at Worsley; and after that we set off for Germany, where
we think of remaining till the end of September. Adelaide's engagement at Covent Garden begins
in November, when you must come and assist in bringing her out properly. God bless you, dear.
Give my love to Dorothy, and believe me

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    THE HOO, Wednesday, July 28th, 1841.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I wrote you a long letter yesterday, which was no sooner finished than I tore it up.... We
came down to this place yesterday. I obtained Lady Dacre's leave to bring my sister, and of
course I have my children with me, so we are here in great force. Independently of my long
regard for and gratitude to Lord and Lady Dacre, which made me glad to visit them, I like this
old place, and find it pleasant, though it has no pretensions to be a fine one. Some part of
the offices is Saxon, of an early date, old enough to be interesting. The house itself, however,
is comparatively modern: it is a square building, and formerly enclosed a large courtyard,
but in later days the open space has been filled up with a fine oak staircase (roofed in with
a skylight), the carving of which is old and curious and picturesque. The park is not large,
but has some noble trees, which you would delight in; the flower-garden, stolen from a charming
old wood (some of the large trees of which are coaxed into its boundaries), is a lovely little
strip of velvet lawn, dotted all over with flower-beds, like large nosegays dropped on the
turf; and the rough, whitey-brown, weather-beaten stone of the house is covered nearly to the
top windows with honeysuckle and jasmine. It is not at all like what is called a fine place;
it is not even as pretty and cheerful as Bannisters: but it has an air of ancient stability
and dignity, without pretension or ostentation, that is very agreeable....

We left my father tolerably well in health, but a good deal shaken in spirits.... I am expected
downstairs, to read to them in the drawing-room something from Shakespeare; and our afternoon
is promised to a cricket-match, for the edification of one of our party, who never saw one.
I must therefore conclude.... Good-bye, dearest Harriet. As for me, to be once more in pure
air, among flowers and under trees, is all-sufficient happiness. I do cordially hate all towns.

Give my dear love to Mrs. Harry Siddons, if she is near you, and tell her I shall surely not
leave Europe without seeing her again, let her be where she will. Remember me affectionately
to Dorothy, and believe me.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     THE HOO, Thursday, July 29th, 1841.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I wrote to you yesterday, but an unanswered letter of yours lies on the top of my budget of
"letters to answer," and I take it up to reply to it. The life I am leading does not afford
much to say; yet that is not quite true, for to loving hearts or thinking minds the common
events of every day, in the commonest of lives, have a meaning.... After breakfast yesterday
we took up Lady Dacre's translations from Petrarch--a very admirable performance, in which
she has contrived to bend our northern utterance into a most harmonious and yet conscientious
interpretation of those perfect Italian compositions. My sister read the Italian, which, with
her pure pronunciation and clear ringing voice, sounded enchanting; after which I echoed it
with the English translation; all which went on very prosperously, till I came to that touching
invocation written on Good Friday, when the poet, no longer offering incense to his mortal
idol, but penitential supplications to his God, implores pardon for the waste of life and power
his passion had betrayed him into, and seeks for help to follow higher aims and holier purposes;
a pathetic and solemn composition, which vibrated so deeply upon kindred chords in my heart
that my voice became choked, and I could not read any more. After this, Adelaide read us some
Wordsworth, for which she has a special admiration; after which, having recovered my voice,
I took up "Romeo and Juliet," for which we all have a special admiration; and so the morning
passed. After lunch, we went, B----, Lord Dacre, and I on horseback, Lady Dacre, Adelaide,
and G---- S---- in the open carriage, to a pretty village seven miles off, where a cricket-match
was being played, into the mysteries of which some of us particularly wished to be initiated.

The village of Hitchin is full of Quakers, and I rather think the game was being played by
them, for such a silent meeting I never saw, out of a Friends' place of worship. But the ride
was beautiful, and the day exquisite; and I learned for the first time that clematis is called,
in this part of England, "traveller's joy," which name returned upon my lips, like a strain
of music, at every moment, so full of poetry and sweet and touching association does it seem
to me. Do you know it by that name in Ireland? I never heard it before in England, though I
have been familiar with another pretty nickname for it, which you probably know--virgin's-bower.
This is all very well for its flowering season; I wish somebody would find a pretty name for
it when it is all covered with blown glass or soap-bubbles, and looks at a little distance
like smoke.

Returning home, after entering the park, Lord Dacre had left us to go and look at a turnip-field,
and B---- and I started for a gallop; when my horse, a powerful old hunter, not very well curbed,
and extremely hard-mouthed, receiving some lively suggestion from the rhythmical sound of his
own hoofs on the turf, put his head down between his legs and tore off with me at the top of
his speed. I knew there was a tallish hedge in the direction in which we were going, and, as
it is full seven years since I sat a leap, I also knew that there was a fair chance of my being
chucked off, if he took it, which I thought I knew he would; so I lay back in my saddle and
sawed at his mouth and pulled de corps et a'âne, but in vain. I lost my breath, I lost my hat,
and shouted at the top of my voice to B---- to stop, which I thought if she did, my steed,
whose spirit had been roused by emulation, would probably do too. She did not hear me, but
fortunately stopped her horse before we reached the hedge, when my quadruped halted of his
own sweet will, with a bound on all fours, or off all fours, that sent me half up to the sky;
but I came back into my saddle without leap, without tumble, and with only my ignoble fright
for my pains.

We dine at half-past seven, after which we generally have music and purse-making and discussions,
poetical and political, and wine and water and biscuits, and go to bed betimes, like wise folk....

This morning a bloodhound was brought me from the dog-kennel, the largest dog of his kind,
and the handsomest of any kind, that I ever saw; his face and ears were exquisite, his form
and color magnificent, his voice appalling, and the expression of his countenance the tenderest,
sweetest, and saddest you can conceive; I cannot imagine a more beautiful brute. After admiring
him we went to the stables, to see a new horse Lord Dacre has just bought, and I left him being
put through his paces, to come and indite this letter to you....

We leave this place on Monday for London, at the thought of which I feel half choked with smoke
already. The Friday after, however, we go into the country again, to the Arkwrights' and the
Francis Egertons', and then to Germany; so that our lungs and nostrils will be tolerably free
passages for vital air for some little time.

God bless you, dearest Harriet. I have filled my letter with such matter as I had--too much
with myself, perhaps, for any one but you; but unless I write you an epic poem about King Charlemagne,
I know not well what else to write about here.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      THE HOO, Sunday, August 1st, 1841.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

I wrote you the day before yesterday, and gave you a sort of journal of that day's proceedings.
I have nothing of any different interest to tell you, inasmuch as our daily proceedings here
are much of a muchness.

We return to town to-morrow afternoon, to my great regret; and I must, immediately upon our
doing so, remove the family to our new abode. I am rather anxious to see how my father is;
we left him in very low spirits, ... and I am anxious to see whether he has recovered them
at all. I think our visit to Sutton, where we go on Friday, will be of use to him; for though
he cordially dislikes the country and everything belonging to its unexciting existence, he
has always had a very great attachment for Mrs. Arkwright, and perhaps, for so short a time
as a week, he may be able to resist the ennui of l'innocence des champs....

I am well, and have been enjoying myself extremely. I love the country for itself; and the
species of life which combines, as these people lead it, the pleasures of the highest civilization
with the wholesome enjoyments which nature abounds in seems to me the perfection of existence,
and is always beneficial as well as delightful to me. I rode yesterday a fine new horse Lord
Dacre has just bought, and who is to be christened Forester, in honor of my beloved American
steed, whom he somewhat resembles....

Considering our weather down here in Hertfordshire, I am afraid you must have most dismal skies
at Ambleside, where you are generally so misty and damp; I am sure I recollect no English summer
like this. As for poor Adelaide, she is all but frozen to death, and creeps about, lamenting
for the sun, in a most piteous fashion imaginable.

I have had a letter from Cecilia Combe within the last two days, anticipating meeting us on
the Rhine, either at Godesberg, where she now is, or at Bonn, where she expects to pass some
time soon. She complains of dulness, but accuses the weather, which she says is horrible. By-the-by,
of Cecy and Mr. Combe I have now got the report containing the account of Laura Bridgman (the
deaf, dumb, and blind girl of whom he speaks), and when you come to me you shall see it; it
is marvellous--a perfect miracle of Christian love.

Catherine Sedgwick's book (some notes of her visit to Europe) has just come out, and I am reading
it again, having read the manuscript journal when first she returned home; a record, of course,
of far more interest than the pruned and pared version of it which she gives to the public.
I am also reading an excellent article in the last Edinburgh, on the society of Port Royal,
which I find immensely interesting. I must now run out for a walk. It is Sunday, and the horses
are not used, and I must acquire some exercise, through the agency of my own legs, before dinner.
I have walked two miles this morning, to be sure; but that was to and from church, and should
not count. God bless you, dearest Harriet.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     LIÈGE, Thursday, August 26th, 1841.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

We have just returned from a lionizing drive about Liège, a city of which my liveliest impressions,
before I saw it, were derived from Scott's novel of "Quentin Durward," and in which the part
now remaining of what existed in his time is all that much interests me.

I do not know whether in your peregrinations you ever visited this place; if you did, I hope
you duly admired the palace of the prince bishop (formerly), now the Palais de Justice, which
is one of the most picturesque remnants of ancient architecture I have seen in this land of them.

Except this, and one fine old church, I have found nothing in the town to please or interest
me much. I have seen one or two old dog-holes of houses, blackened and falling in with age,
which seem as if they might be some of the cinders of Charles the Bold's burnings hereabouts.
We left Brussels this morning, after spending a day and a half there. I was much pleased with
the gay and cheerful appearance of that small imitation Paris, even to the degree of fancying
that I should like to live there, in spite of the supercilious sentence of vulgarity, stupidity,
and pretension which some of our friends, diplomatic residents there, passed upon the inhabitants....
We went to call upon the ----s, and, with something of a shock on my part, found one of the
ornaments of his sitting-room a large crucifix with the Saviour in his death-agony--a horrible
image, which I would banish, if I could, from every artist's imagination; for the physical
suffering is a revolting spectacle which art should not portray, and the spiritual triumph
is a thing which the kindred soul of man may indeed conceive, but which art cannot delineate,
for it is God, and not to be translated into matter, save indeed where it once was made manifest
in that Face and Person every imaginary representation of which is to me more or less intolerable.

The face of Christ is never painted or sculptured without being painfully offensive to me;
yet I have seen looks--who has not?--that were His, momentarily, on mortal faces; but they
were looks that could not have been copied, even there....

These steamship and railroad times will do away with that staple idea, both in real and literary
romances, of "never meeting again," "parting forever," etc., etc.; and people will now meet
over and over again, no matter by what circumstances parted, or to what distance thrown from
each other; whence I draw the moral that our conduct in all the quarters of the globe had better
be as decent as possible, for there is no such thing nowadays as losing sight of people or
places--I mean, for any convenient length of time, for purposes of forgetfulness. I forget
whether, when you left us in London, my father had come to the determination of not accompanying
but following us, which he intends doing as soon as he feels well enough to travel.

Rubens's paintings have given us extreme delight.... I was much interested by the lace-works
at Brussels and Mechlin, and very painfully so. It is beginning to be time, I think, in Christian
countries, for manufactures of mere luxury to be done away with, when proficiency in the merest
mechanical drudgery involved in them demands a lifetime, and the sight and health of women,
who begin this twilight work at five and six years old, are often sacrificed long before their
natural term to this costly and unhealthy industry.

I hope to see all such manufactures done away with, for they are bad things, and a whole moral
and intelligent being, turned into ten fingers' ends for such purposes, is a sad spectacle.
I (a lace-worshipper, if ever woman was) say this advisedly; I am sorry there is still Mechlin
and Brussels lace made, and glad there is no more India muslin, and rejoice in the disuse of
every minute manual labor which tends to make a mere machine of God's likeness. But oh, for
all that, how incomparably inferior is the finest, faultless, machine-made lace and muslin
to the exquisite irregularity of the human fabric!... Good-bye, my dearest Harriet. We start
for Aix-la-Chapelle at eight to-morrow. I am not in very good strength; the fact is, I am now
never in thoroughly good plight without exercise on horseback, and it is a long time since
I have had any, and, of course, it is now quite out of the question. I beg, desire, entreat,
and command that you will immediately get and read Balzac's "Eugénie Grandet," and tell me
instantly what you think of it.

                              Your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     WIESBADEN, Friday, September, 1841.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Walking along the little brook-side on the garden path under the trees towards the Sonnenberg,
you may well imagine how vividly your image and that of Catherine Sedgwick were present to
me. You took this walk together, and it was from her lively description of it that I knew,
the moment I set my feet in the path, both where I was and where I was going. That walk is
very pretty. I did not follow it to the end, because my children were with me, and it was too
far for them; but yesterday I went to the ruin on horseback, and came home along the rough
cart-road, on the hill on the other side of the valley, whence the views reminded me somewhat
of the country round Lenox, in Massachusetts, though not perhaps of the prettiest part of the
latter.

I have not yet in my travels seen anything much more picturesque than the prettiest parts of
the American Berkshire; and upon the whole (castles, of course, excepted) was rather disappointed
in the Rhine, which is not, I think, as beautiful a river as the Hudson. Knowing the powerful
charm of affectionate association, and the halo which happiness throws over any place where
we attain to something approaching it, I have sometimes suspected that my admiration of and
delight in that Lenox and Stockbridge scenery was derived in some measure from those sources,
and that the country round them is not in reality as beautiful as it always appears in my eyes
and to my memory. But, comparing it now with scenery admired by the travelling taste of all
Europe, I am satisfied that the American scenery I am so fond of is intrinsically lovely, and
compares very favorably with everything I have seen hitherto on the Continent.

As for your friend Anne (my children's American nurse), coming up the Rhine she sat looking
at the shores, her brown eyes growing rounder and rounder, and her handsome face full of as
much good-humored contempt as it could express, every now and then exclaiming, "Well, to be
sure, it's a pretty river, and it's well enough; but my! they hadn't need to make such a fuss
about it." The fact is, that the noble breadth of the river forms one of its most striking
features to a European, and this, you know, is no marvel to "us of the new world." Moreover,
I suspect Anne does not consider the baronial castles "of much 'count," either; and, to confess
the truth, I am rather disturbed at the little emotion produced in me by the romantic ruins
and picturesque accompaniments of the Rhine. But it seems to me that I am losing much of my
excitability; my imagination has become disgracefully tame, and I find myself here, where I
have most desired to be, with a mind chiefly intent upon where, when, how, and on what my children
can dine, and feelings principally occupied with the fact that I have no one with me to sympathize
in any other thought or emotion if I should attempt to indulge in such.

We arrived at Coblentz one melting summer afternoon, and I walked up to the top of the fortress
alone, and the setting of the sun over beyond the lands and rivers at my feet, and the uprising
of the moon above, the bristling battlements behind me, filled me with delight; but I had no
one to express it to.

This evening at Ehrenbreitstein, and the cathedral at Cologne, are my two events hitherto;
the only two things that have stirred or affected me much. That cathedral is a whole liturgy
in stone--eloquent, devout stone,--uttering so solemnly its great unfinished God-service of
silent prayer and praise through all these centuries. I have seen many beautiful churches,
but was never impressed by any as by this huge fragment of one.

My father, as I have written you, stayed behind, saying that he would follow us. He has not
done so yet, and I do not expect that he will, for reasons which I will not repeat, as I gave
them to you in a long letter which I wrote to you from Liège, which I heartily hope you have
received.

    [On arriving at Coblentz on a brilliant afternoon, so much of lovely
    daylight yet remained that I was most desirous to cross the river
    and ascend the great fortress of the Broad Stone of Honor, to see
    the sunset from its walls. I could not inspire anybody else with the
    same zeal, however; and, under the combined influence of
    disappointment and eager curiosity, started alone, at a brisk walk,
    and, crossing the bridge, began the ascent, and, gradually
    quickening my pace as I neared the summit, arrived, on a full run,
    breathless before the sentinel who guarded the last gates and
    amiably shook his head at my attempt to enter. The gates were open,
    and I saw, across the wide parade-ground, or place d'armes, where
    groups of soldiers were standing and loitering about, the parapet
    wall of the fortress, whence I had hoped to see the day go down over
    the Rhine, the Moselle, and all the glorious region round their
    confluence. "Oh, do let me in," cried I in very emphatic English
    to the sentry, who gravely shook his head. "Where is your father?"
    quoth he in German, as I made imploring and impatient gestures,
    significant of my despair at the idea of having had that stupendous
    climb all for nothing. "I have none," cried I, in English and French
    all in a breath. Both were equally Greek to him. He gravely shook
    his head. "Where is your husband?" quoth he in German, to which I
    replied in German--oh, such German!--that "I had none, that I was a
    woman" (which he probably saw), "only a woman, an Englishwoman"
    (which he probably heard), "and that I could do no harm to his
    fortress; that I had come all alone, and run half the way up, and
    that I could not turn back, and he must let me in!" He still shook
    his head gravely. I had the tears in my eyes, and felt ready to cry
    with vexation. Just then an officer approaching the gates from
    within, I addressed my eager supplications in sputtering, stuttering
    fragments of German, French, and English to him; and he, laughing
    good-naturedly, gave the sentinel the order to admit me; when I made
    straight across the great parade-ground, surrounded with the masses
    of the huge fortification, to the low parapet wall, whence I beheld
    the glorious landscape I had hoped to see, bathed in the sunset--a
    vision of splendor, which surpassed even what I had expected, as I
    looked down from the dizzy height, over the magnificent river and
    its beautiful tributary, and all the near and distant landscape,
    melting far away into golden vapory indistinctness. I did not dare
    to stay long, having to return again alone; so, thanking my kind
    conductor, who had evidently enjoyed my ecstasy at the beauty of his
    Vaterland, I left the fortress, stopping again at the gate to ask
    the name of my friendly sentinel whose resistance to my impetuous
    storming of the fort had been as mild and gentle as was consistent
    with his resolute refusal to admit me. Having not a scrap of paper
    with me, I wrote his name with my pencil on my glove, determined,
    when I returned through Coblentz, to bring him some token of my
    gratitude for his patient forbearance; and so I ran all the way down
    and back to the hotel.

    On our return, some weeks after, we visited Ehrenbreitstein with all
    the decorous solemnity of decent sight-seeing travellers; and, one
    of a party of four, I drove in state, in an open carriage, up the
    formidable approach that I had scaled so vehemently before. Duly
    armed with admits and permits, and all proper justifications of our
    approach, we drove under the huge archway, where stood another
    sentinel, and were received with courteous ceremony by some military
    gentlemen, under whose escort I leisurely went over the scene of my
    first visit, standing again, in more dignified enthusiasm, at the
    parapet where I had panted before in the breathless excitement of my
    run up the hill, my fight with the sentry, and my victory over him.
    Now, having been duly led and conducted and ushered and escorted all
    round, as we were about to depart, I begged, as a favor of the
    commanding officer, to be allowed to see again my friendly sentinel,
    for whom I had brought up a meerschaum of a pretty pattern that I
    had bought for him. "What was his name?" "Schneider." "Oh, there are
    several so called among the men. Should you know him again?" "Oh
    yes, indeed." And now ensued a general cry for Schneiders to present
    themselves. One after another was marched up, but without any
    resemblance to my friendly foe. Presently a word of command was
    given, followed by a brisk rolling of drums, when all the men came
    pouring out of the surrounding buildings, and formed in ranks on the
    ground. "You have seen them all--all the Schneiders," said the
    kindly commandant. "Ah, no! here is yet one;" and from the back
    ranks was pushed and pulled and thrust and shoved, perfectly crimson
    with shyness and suppressed laughter, one of the handsomest lads I
    ever saw. "Is this your man?" said the commanding officer, with a
    profound bow, and his face puckered up with laughing. "No," cried I
    (for it wasn't), quite overcome with confusion and the general
    laughter that followed the production of this last of the
    Schneiders. One of the officers then said that some of the troops
    had been sent elsewhere, not long after my first visit. "Ah, then,"
    said the commandant, who had interested himself in my search with
    considerable amusement, "your Schneider, madame, has left
    Ehrenbreitstein." And so did we; I, not a little disappointed at not
    having seen again the worthy man who had not bayoneted me away from
    the gates, when I assailed them and him in such a frenzy.]

We overtook my sister at Mayence, or rather, I and the children remained there, while some
of our party went on to Frankfort, where she was. They returned to Mayence in a body: ----,
Adelaide, Henry, Miss Cottin, Mary Anne Thackeray, our London friend Chorley, and the illustrious
Liszt. Travelling leisurely, as we were compelled to do on account of the children, I missed,
to my great regret, my sister's first two public performances--a concert, and a representation
of Norma, which she gave at Frankfort, and of which everybody spoke with the greatest enthusiasm.
On the evening of the day when she joined us at Mayence, she sang at a concert, and this was
the first time that I really have heard her sing in public; for I did not consider the concert
at Stafford House a fair test of her powers--the audience was too limited, in number and quality,
to deserve the name of a public. The sweetness and freshness of her voice struck me more than
ever, but it appears to me rather wanting in power; and the same impression was produced upon
me when I heard her sing in the Kursaal here. If there should be deficiency of power in the
voice, it will, I fear, affect her success in so large a theatre as Covent Garden.... She sings
Norma again to-night at Mayence, and I am going--of course without any anxiety, for her success
is already established here; and with great anticipations of pleasure--more even, if possible,
from her acting than her singing; for the latter I am already familiar with, but of the former
I have no experience, and have always entertained the greatest expectations of it, and I think
I shall not be disappointed.

We have obtained very pleasant apartments here, and I have established Anne and the children
quite comfortably; they were beginning to suffer from the perpetual moving about, and I shall
let them remain undisturbed here, during the rest of our stay in Germany, and shall either
stay quietly with them, or accompany my sister, if it is determined that we are to do so, to
the places of her various engagements.

Since writing the above, I have seen my sister act Norma, and her performance fully equalled
my expectation; which is great praise, for I have always had the highest opinion of her dramatic
powers, and was, as I believe you know, earnest with her at one time to leave the opera stage
and become an actress in her own language, as I was very sure of her entire success, and thought
it a better and higher order of thing than this mere uttering of sound, and perpetual representation
of passion and emotion, comparatively unmixed with intellect. To be sure, that would be to
sacrifice some of her fine natural endowments, and the art and science of music, in which she
has, at so much cost of time and labor, so thoroughly perfected herself, and which is in itself
so exquisite a thing.... Her carriage is good, easy, and unembarrassed; her gestures and use
of her arms remarkably graceful and appropriate. There is very little too much action, and
that which appears to me redundant may simply seem so because her conception of the character
is, in some of its parts, impulsive, where it strikes me as concentrated, and would therefore
be sterner and stiller in its effect than she occasionally makes it. But she has evidently
thought over the whole most carefully, considered the effects she intends to produce, and the
means of producing them; and it is a far more finished performance, without any of the special
defects which I should have expected in so great a lyrical tragic part, given by so young an
artist. I suspect, however, that the severely mechanical element in music renders certainty
in the performer's intentions necessary beforehand, to a much greater degree than in a merely
dramatic performance; and thus a singer can seldom do the things which an actor sometimes does,
upon the sudden inspiration of the moment, occasionally producing thus extraordinary effects.
Some of the things my sister did were perfect--I speak now of her acting: they were as fine
as some of Pasta's great effects, and her whole performance reminded me forcibly of that finest
artist. I cannot help thinking, however, that she is cramped by the music, and I confess I
should like to see her act Bianca without singing it, as I am satisfied that she would represent
most admirably all characters of power and passion, and find in the great dramatic compositions
of our stage, and especially in Shakespeare's plays, scope for her capacity which Italian operas
cannot afford.

Her voice is not as powerful as I expected, nor as I think it would have been if she had not
striven to acquire artificial compass; that is, high notes which were not originally in her
natural register,--the great aim of all singers being to sing the highest music, which is always
that of the principal female character. The consequence of this is sometimes that the quality
of the natural voice is in a measure sacrificed to the acquisition of notes not originally
within its compass....

I have room for no more, dearest Harriet. Good-bye, and God bless you.

                              Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

I wrote you an interminable letter from Liège. Did you ever get it?

    [The time we spent on the Rhine during this summer afforded me an
    opportunity of almost intimate acquaintance with the celebrated
    musician who had persuaded my sister to associate herself with him
    in the concerts he gave at the principal places on the Rhine where
    we stopped.

    Our whole expedition partook more of the character of a party of
    pleasure than a business speculation; and though Liszt's and my
    sister's musical performances were professional exhibitions of the
    highest order, the relations of our whole party were those of the
    friendliest and merriest tourists and compagnons de voyage.
    Nothing could exceed the charm of our delightful travelling through
    that lovely scenery, and sojourning in those pleasant picturesque
    antique towns, where the fine concerts of our two artists enchanted
    us even more, from personal sympathy, than the most enthusiastic
    audiences who thronged to hear them.

    Liszt was at this time a young man, in the very perfection of his
    extraordinary talent, and at the height of his great celebrity. He
    was extremely handsome; his features were finely chiselled, and the
    expression of his face, especially when under the inspiration of
    playing, strikingly grand and commanding.

    Of all the pianists that I have ever heard, and I have heard all the
    most celebrated of my time, he was undoubtedly the first for fire,
    power, and brilliancy of execution. His style, which was strictly
    original, and an innovation upon all that had preceded it, may be
    called the "Sturm und Drang," or seven-leagued-boot style of playing
    on the piano; and in listening to him, it was difficult to believe
    that he had no more than the average number of fingers, or that they
    were of the average length,--but that, indeed, they were not; he had
    stretched his hands like a pair of kid gloves, and accomplished the
    most incredible distances, while executing, in the interval between
    them, inconceivable musical feats with his three middle fingers.
    None of his musical contemporaries, Moscheles, Mendelssohn, Chopin,
    nor his more immediate rival, Thalberg, ever produced anything like
    the volcanic sort of musical effect which he did, perfect eruptions,
    earthquakes, tornadoes of sound, such as I never heard any piano
    utter but under his touch. But though he was undoubtedly a more
    amazing performer than any I ever listened to, his peculiar
    eccentricities were so inextricably interwoven with the whole mode
    and manner of his performances that, in spite of the many imitators
    they have inspired, he could by no means be regarded as the founder
    of anything deserving the name of a school of piano-playing. M.
    Rubinstein, I presume, in our own day, represents Liszt's peculiar
    genius better than any one else.

    The close, concise, crowded, and somewhat crabbed style of the great
    learned musical school of the Bachs, which may almost be called the
    algebra or geometry of musical composition, at any rate its higher
    mathematics, had certainly challenged a spirit of the most daring
    contrast in the young Hungarian prodigy, who electrified Paris, and
    carried its severe body of classical critics by storm, with the
    triumphant audacity of his brilliant and powerful style. Liszt
    became, at the very opening of his career, so immediately a miracle,
    and then an oracle, in the artistic and the great world of Paris
    that he was allowed to impose his own terms upon its judgment; and
    suffering himself the worst consequences of that order of success,
    he achieved too early a fame for his permanent reputation. A want of
    sobriety, a fantastical seeking after strange effects--in short, the
    characteristics of artistic charlatanerie--mixed themselves up
    with all that he did, and, as is inevitably the case, deteriorated
    the fine original gifts of his genius. When I first heard him, he
    had already reached the furthest limit of his powers, because they
    were exerted in a mistaken direction; and the exaggeration and false
    taste which were covered by his marvellous facility and strength
    gradually became more and more predominant in his performances, and
    turned them almost into caricatures of the first wonderful specimens
    of ability with which he had amazed the musical world.

    He could not go on being forever more astonishing than he had ever
    been before, and he paid the penalty of having made that his
    principal aim. His execution and composition alike became by degrees
    incoherent acrobatism, in which all that could call itself art was a
    mere combination of extraordinary and all but grotesque
    difficulties, devised for the sole purpose of overcoming them;
    musical convulsions and contortions, that forever recalled Dr.
    Johnson's epigram.

    In the summer of 1842 Liszt was but on the edge of this descent; his
    genius, his youth, his personal beauty, and the vivid charm of his
    manner and conversation had made him the idol of society, as well as
    of the artistic world, and he was then radiant with the fire of his
    great natural gifts, and dazzling with the success that had crowned
    them; he was a brilliant creature....

    After this I never saw Liszt again until the summer of 1870. I had
    gone to the theatre at Munich, where I was staying, to hear Wagner's
    opera of the "Rheingold," with my daughter and her husband. We had
    already taken our places, when S---- exclaimed to me, "There is
    Liszt." The increased age, the clerical dress, had effected but
    little change in the striking general appearance, which my daughter
    (who had never seen him since 1842, when she was quite a child)
    recognized immediately. I went round to his box, and, recalling
    myself to his memory, begged him to come to ours, and let me
    present my daughter to him; he very good-naturedly did so, and the
    next day called upon us at our hotel, and sat with us a long
    time....

    His conversation on matters of art (Wagner's music, which he and we
    had listened to the evening before) and literature was curiously
    cautious and guarded, and every expression of opinion given with
    extreme reserve, instead of the uncompromising fearlessness of his
    earlier years; and the abbé was indeed quite another from the Liszt
    of our summer on the Rhine of 1842.

    Liszt never composed any very good music; arrangement of the music
    of others was his specialty; and his versions of Schubert's,
    Weber's, and Mozart's finest melodies for the piano were the ne
    plus ultra of brilliant and powerful adaptation, but required his
    own rendering to produce their full effect; and by far the most
    extraordinary exhibition of skill I ever heard on the piano was his
    performance of the airs from the Don Giovanni, arranged by himself.
    His literary style had the same qualities and defects as his music:
    brilliancy and picturesqueness, and an absence of genuineness and
    simplicity. He wrote a great deal of musical criticism, and an
    interesting life of Chopin.

    His conversation was sparkling and dazzling, and full of startling
    paradoxes; he had considerable power of sarcastic repartee, and once
    or twice is reported to have encountered the imperious queen of
    Austrian society, Madame de Metternich, with her own weapons, very
    successfully.

    She patronized Thalberg, and affected to depreciate Liszt; but
    having invited them both to her house on one occasion, thought
    proper to address the latter with some impertinent questions about a
    professional visit he had just been paying to Paris, winding up
    with, "Enfin, avez-vous fait de bonnes affaires là-bas?" To which he
    replied, "Pardon, Madame la Princesse, j'ai fait un peu de musique;
    je laisse les affaires aux banquiers et aux diplomates." Later in
    the evening, the lady, probably not well pleased with this rebuff,
    accosted him again, as he stood talking to Thalberg, with a sneering
    compliment on his apparent freedom from all jealousy of his musical
    rival; to which Liszt, who was very sallow, replied, "Mais, Madame
    la Princesse, au contraire, je suis furieusement jaloux de
    Thalberg; regardez donc les jolies couleurs qu'il a!" After which
    Madame la Princesse le laissa en paix.

    Between Thalberg and Liszt I do not think there could be any
    comparison. The exquisite perfection of delicate accuracy, combined
    with extraordinary lightness and velocity of execution, of Thalberg
    was his one unapproachable excellence, and as near the unerring
    precision of mere mechanism as possible: it was absolutely
    faultless; but it paid the penalty for being what things human may
    not be--it wanted the human element of passion and pathos. His
    performance was a miracle of art, and left his admiring auditors
    pleasingly amazed, but untouched in any of the deeper chords of
    sympathetic emotion. He had not a spark of the original genius or
    fire of Liszt. Moscheles, whom I have only named with the other two
    because he was a highly popular performer at the same time, was a
    more solid musician than either of them, and infinitely inferior as
    an executant to both. He was the most excellent of teachers, for
    which valuable office Thalberg would have wanted some and Liszt all
    the necessary qualifications. Of Chopin it is useless to speak:
    exceptional in his artistic nature and in his circumstances, he
    played his own most poetical music as no one else could; though his
    friend Dessauer, who was not a professional player at all, gave a
    most curious and satisfactory imitation of his mode of rendering his
    own compositions. But between Chopin and any other musical composer
    or performer there was never anything in common; he was original and
    unique in both characters.

    As for Mendelssohn, the organ was his real instrument, though he
    played very finely on the piano. He was not, however, a pre-eminent
    performer, but a composer of music; and I should no more think of
    comparing the quality of his genius with that of Liszt, than I
    should compare the Roman girandola with its sky-scaring fusees and
    myriads of sudden scintillations and dazzling coruscations, with the
    element that lights our homes and warms our hearths, or to the
    steadfast shining of the everlasting stars themselves.

    Of all the pianoforte players by whom I have heard Beethoven's music
    more or less successfully rendered, Charles Hallé has always
    appeared to me the one who most perfectly communicated the mind and
    soul of the pre-eminent composer.

    Our temporary fellowship with Liszt procured for us a delightful
    participation in a tribute of admiration from the citizen workmen of
    Coblentz, that was what the French call saissant. We were sitting
    all in our hotel drawing-room together, the maestro as usual
    smoking his long pipe, when a sudden burst of music made us throw
    open the window and go out on the balcony, when Liszt was greeted by
    a magnificent chorus of nearly two hundred men's voices; they sang
    to perfection, each with his small sheet of music and his sheltered
    light in his hand, and the performance, which was the only one of
    the sort I ever heard, gave a wonderful impression of the musical
    capacity of the only really musical nation in the world.]

                                           WIESBADEN, Sunday, September.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I have already written to you from this place: one letter I wrote almost immediately after
taking a walk which you had taken with Catherine Sedgwick, the year that you were here together,
towards the Sonnenberg. You wrote me letters from here too, which I received up at Lenox, and
read at a window looking out over a landscape very much resembling the neighborhood of this
place. I remember your epistolary accounts of Wiesbaden were not very favorable: you did not
like its watering-place aspect and fashions; and neither should I, if I was in any way mixed
up with them. But we have hitherto none of us taken the waters; we have pretty and comfortable
rooms, with the slight drawback of hearing our neighbors washing their hands and brushing their
teeth, and drawing the natural conclusion as to the reciprocity of communications we make to
them. We are at the Quatre Saisons, and with nothing but the Kursaal and its arcades between
us and the gardens; so I am not oppressed with the feeling of a town, streets, houses, shops,
etc., all which lie at my back and are never by any accident approached by me....

I have gone into the baths merely by way of what the French call propreté, being too lazy to
go and fetch a wash under the arcade, in de l'eau naturelle. The water which supplies the baths
in the Quatre Saisons is not by any means as strong as the Kochbrunnen, yet I fancied that
it affected me unpleasantly, causing me a sensation of fullness in the head, and nausea, which
was very disagreeable, as well as making me stupidly sleepy through the day....

Last Thursday I went to Frankfort to hear Adelaide sing; she was to perform, en costume, an
act from three different operas, a sort of hotchpotch which, as she cares for her profession,
I am surprised at her condescending to. We were not in time for the first, which was the last
scene of the "Lucia di Lammermoor," but heard her in the last scene of "Beatrice di Tenda,"
and in the first scene of the "Norma." ... What she does is very perfect, but I think she occasionally
falls short of the amount of power that I expected.... And all the time, I cannot help wishing
that she would leave the singing part of the business, and take to acting not set to music.
I think the singing cramps her acting, and I cannot help having some misgiving as to the effect
she will produce in so large a theatre as Covent Garden; although, as she has sung successfully
in the two largest theatres in Europe, the Scala at Milan and the San Carlo at Naples, I suppose
my nervousness about Covent Garden is unnecessary.... Her movements and gesture are all remarkably
graceful and easy; she is perfectly self-possessed, and impresses me even more as an artist
than a genius, which I did not expect.

I believe she will not sing to-morrow night, and, in that case, they will all come over and
spend the day here, when Henry, Mary Anne Thackeray, and I purpose ascending Wiesbaden horses
and riding to the duke's hunting-seat, which perhaps you drove to when you were here....

I confess to you, I cannot help sometimes feeling a little anxious about my sister's success
in England, especially when I remember how formidable a predecessor she is to succeed--that
wonderful Malibran, who added to such original genius and great dramatic power a voice of such
uncommon force and brilliancy.

Good-bye. This is the third long letter I have written to you since we came abroad.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                  AIX-LA-CHAPELLE, Monday, October 11th.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I begin to sniff the well-beloved fogs and coal-smoke of that best beloved little island to
which I have the honor and glory of belonging, and my spirits are much revived thereby; for,
to tell you the truth, England, bad as it is, is good enough for me, and I am grown old and
stupid and sleepy and don't-carish, and think more about bugs and greasy food in the way of
woe than of vine-clad hills and ruined castles in the way of bliss. Not that I have been by
any means dissatisfied with my tower, though rather disappointed in the one fact of the Rhine:
but I am incurious and always was, and I do not think that fault mends with age; and knights,
squires, and dames too, alas! are no longer to me the interesting folk that they once were.

    "But it is past, the glory is congealing,
      The fervor of the heart grows dead and dim;
    I gaze all night upon a whitewashed ceiling,
      And catch no glimpses of the Seraphim."

I think the ruins of the German hills especially excellent in that they are ruins, and can
by no possibility ever again be made strongholds of debauchery, ferocity, and filth; and finally
and to conclude, my dear Harriet, lights and shadows, the colors of the earth and sky, the
beauty of God's creation, in short, alone now moves me very deeply, and this, I am thankful
to say, is as powerful to do so as ever.

I must tell you something pretty and poetical, and which I think has made more impression upon
me than anything else in the course of my travels. The other evening at Cologne, by the sloping
light of a watery autumnal sunset, the wind blowing loud and strong, the river rolling fast
and free, and the great, violet-colored clouds drooping heavily down the sky, we suddenly heard
the guns along each bank fire repeatedly, saluting the approach of some greatness or other
down the stream. Whether it was king or kaiser, or only one of the merchant-princes to whom
the navigation of this stream now belongs, and who receive these honors whenever they go up
or down the river, nobody could tell; and still peal after peal was fired, and one echo rolled
into another from shore to shore. At length a long low boat came in sight, sweeping down with
the wide current towards the city walls. She was covered from stem to stern with bright flags
and pennons, and was freighted with stone, which the Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt was sending down
from his quarries, to help the people of Cologne to finish their beautiful cathedral; and as
this cargo came along their shores they were saluting it with royal honors. The crane which
was to lift the blocks from the boat had its great iron arm all wreathed with flowers, and
flags and streamers floating from its top, which peaceful half-religious jubilee pleased me
greatly, and affected me too.

At Cologne, six weeks before, we had seen the King of Hanover, Ernest Augustus, the wicked
Duke of Cumberland, received just in the same way, except that the cannonading was closed on
that occasion, in an exceedingly appropriate manner to my mind, by a sudden fierce peal of
derisive thunder.

We went, while at Cologne, to the Museum, and there saw another beautiful thing of another
sort, Bendermann's picture of the Jews weeping by the waters of Babylon--a very striking picture,
sad and harmonious in its coloring, and full of feeling and expression; I was greatly impressed
by it. And thus, you see, from only one of the places I have visited, I have brought away two
living recollections, perpetual sources of pleasant mental contemplation. Two such treasures
in one's storehouse of memory would have been worth the whole journey; but I have had many
more such, and I incline to think that it is very often in retrospect that travel is most agreeable--the
little annoyances and hindrances, which often qualify one's pleasure a good deal at the time
one receives it, seldom mix themselves with the recollection of it in the same vivid manner;
and so, as the American widow said she thought it was a charming thing "to have been married
and be done with it," I think it is a charming thing to have been up the Rhine and be back again.

I forget whether I wrote you word of my father's joining us for a single day at Frankfort,
and then returning immediately to England.... He was not at all well, and the hurried journey
was, I fear, a most imprudent one. My sister is at present at Liège with Henry, Liszt, and
our friend Chorley....

Good-bye, my dearest H----.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [My friend Miss S---- came to us in London, and witnessed with me
    my sister's coming out at Covent Garden, which took place on
    Tuesday, the 2nd of November, 1842, in Bellini's opera of "Norma,"
    which she sang in English, retaining the whole of the recitative. My
    sister's success was triumphant, and the fortunes of the unfortunate
    theatre, which again were at the lowest ebb, revived under the
    influence of her great and immediate popularity, and the overflowing
    houses that, night after night, crowded to hear her. Her
    performances, which I seldom missed, were among my most delightful
    pleasures, during a season in which I enjoyed the companionship of
    my dear friend, and a great deal of pleasant social intercourse with
    the most interesting and agreeable people of the great gay London
    world.]

                                          BOWOOD, Sunday, December 19th.
                    To Theodore Sedgwick, Esq.
  MY DEAR THEODORE,

I cannot conceive how it happens that a letter of yours, dated the 8th September, should have
reached me only a fortnight ago in London. Either it must have been forgotten after written,
and not sent for some time, or Messrs. Harnden and Co.'s Express is the slowest known conveyance
in the world. However that may be, the letter and the Philadelphia Bank statement did arrive
safe at last, and my father desires me to thank you particularly for your kindness in sending
it to him. Not, indeed, that it is peculiarly consolatory in itself, inasmuch as it confirms
our worst apprehensions about the fate of all moneys lodged in that disastrous institution.
But perhaps it is better to have a term put to one's uncertainty, even by the positive conviction
of misfortune not to be averted. My father's property in that bank--"The United States Bank"--was
considerable for him, and had been hardly earned money. I understand from him that my share
of our American earnings are in the New Orleans banks, which, though they pay no dividends,
and have not done so for some time past, are still, I believe, supposed to be safe and solvent....

We are staying just now with Lord and Lady Lansdowne, in this pleasant home of theirs--a home
of terrestrial delights. Inside the house, all is tasteful and intellectual magnificence--such
pictures! such statues! And outside, a charming English landscape, educated with consummate
taste into the very perfection of apparently natural beauty.... They are amiable, good, pleasant,
and every way distinguished people, and I like them very much. He, as you know, is one of our
leading Whig statesmen, a munificent patron of the arts and literature, a man of the finest
taste and cultivation, at whose house eminences of all sorts are cordially received. Lady Lansdowne
is a specimen Englishwoman of her class, refined, intelligent, well-bred, and most charming.
I believe Lord Lansdowne was kindly civil to your aunt Catherine when she was in London; I
wish she could have see this enchanting place of his.

Rogers, Moore, and a parcel of choice beaux esprits are staying here; but, to tell you a fact
which probably accuses me of stupidity, they are so incessantly clever, witty, and brilliant
that they every now and then give me a brain-ache.

I do not know the exact depth of your patience, but I have an idea that it has a bottom, therefore
I think it expedient not to pursue crossing any further with you.

Give my kindest love to Sarah, and

                    Believe me ever, my dear Theodore,
                              Yours very truly,
                                                           FANNY BUTLER.

Please remember me very kindly to your mother. I sat by a man at dinner yesterday, a Dr. Fowler
of Salisbury, who was talking to me of having known her friends Mrs. Jay and Mrs. Banian, when
they were in England; and their names were pleasant to me on account of their association with her.

                                   BOWOOD, Tuesday, December 21st, 1841.

Did you expect an immediate answer from me, dear Harriet, or did you think your letters would
be put at the bottom of the budget, to wait their appointed time? You say your thought in parting
from me was chiefly to preserve your tranquillity; and so was mine to preserve my own and yours....
There are many occasions on which I both feel much more than I show, and perceive in others
much more feeling than I believe they think I am aware of. There are times when, for one's
own sake, as well as for that of others, to be--or, if that is not possible, to seem--absorbed
in outward things of the most indifferent description is highly desirable; and I am even conscious
sometimes of a sort of hardness, which seems to come involuntarily to my aid, in seasons when
I know myself or fear that others are about to be carried away by their feelings, or to break
down under them....

I was glad enough to get your second letter, and to know you were safe in Dublin. It was calm
the night you crossed, but it has blown once or twice fearfully since.

Our visit to the Francis Egertons, at Worsley, was prosperous and pleasant in the highest degree;
and we are now paying our promised one at Bowood. I must tell you a trait of Anne [my children's
American nurse], who, it is my belief, is nothing less than the Princess Pocahontas, who, having
returned to earth, has condescended to take charge of my children.

You know that this place is celebrated; the house is not only fine in point of size, architecture,
and costly furnishing, but is filled with precious works of art, painting and sculpture, modern
and ancient, beautiful, rare, and costly. The first day that we arrived, ushered up the great
staircase to our rooms, I followed the servant with wide-open eyes, gazing in delighted admiration
at everything I saw. "Well," said I to Anne, "is not this a fine house, Anne?" "The staircase
is well enough," was her imperturbable reply. Wouldn't one think she had had the Vatican for
her second-best house, and St. Peter's for her private chapel, all the days of her life? She
certainly must have, some Indian blood in her veins.

This morning I took a brisk walk along the sunny terrace, where, from under the shining shelter
of holly, laurel, cedar, and all other evergreen shrubs and trees, one looks over a garden--that
even now, with its graceful vases, its terraces, its ivy winter dressing, is gay and beautiful--to
a lawn that slopes gently to a sheet of water, losing itself like a lake among irregular wooded
banks, whose brown feathery outline borrows from the winter's sun a golden tinge of soft sad
splendor. Upon this water swans and wild-fowl sail and sport about; and the whole scene this
morning, tipped with sparkling frost, and shining under a brilliant sky, seemed very charming
to me, and to S---- too, who, running by my side, exclaimed, "Well, this is my idea of heaven!
I do think this might be called Paradise, or that garden--I forget its name--that Adam and
Eve were put into!" (Eden had escaped her memory, as, let us hope, in time it did theirs.)
I was pleased to find that my Biblical teachings had suggested positive images, and that she
had caught none of her nurse's stolid insensibility to beauty....

We have a choice society here just now, and fortunately among them persons that we know and
feel at our ease with: Rogers, Moore, Macaulay, Babbage, Westmacott, Charles Greville, and
two or three charming, agreeable, unaffected women....

You ask if Lady Holland is at Bowood. No, she had returned home by land, as they say [at the
beginning of railroad travelling, persons who still preferred the former method of posting
on the high-road were said to go by land], not choosing to risk her precious body on the railway
without Brunel's personal escort to keep it in order and prevent it from doing her any accident.
He having had the happiness of travelling down to Bowood with her, which she insisted upon,
naturally enough declined coming all the way down again from London to see her safe home; so
not being able to accomplish his fetching her back to town, she contrived to extort from him
a letter stating that, owing to the late heavy rains, her journey back to London upon the railroad
would probably be both tedious and uncomfortable, and advising her by all means to go home
"by land," which, considering that the Great Western is his own road--his iron child, so to
speak,--by which he is bound to swear under all circumstances, is, I think, a pretty good specimen
of her omnipotence.

She did post home accordingly, but not without dismal misgivings as to what might befall her
while crossing a wood of Lord Salisbury's, where she was to be, for a short space of time,
seven miles off from any village or town. I never knew such a terrified, terrible, foolish
old woman in my life.

After all, she is right: life is worth more to very good and to very good-for-nothing people
than to others. My father dined with her in town while we were away, and in her note of invitation
she included us, if we had returned, saying all manner of civil fine things about me; but,
as far as I am concerned, it won't do, and she cannot put salt upon my tail....

We returned to town on Friday. Charles Greville saw my father on Saturday, and says he is,
and is looking, very well. Adelaide was gone down to Addlestone, to see John and his wife.
My children--bless them!--are making such a riot here at my table that I scarcely know what
I am writing.

Good-bye, dearest Harriet. I will write to you again to-morrow.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                               Bowood, Wednesday, December 22nd, 1841.
  Dearest Harriet,

I was a "happy woman" at Worsley [a "happy woman" was the term used by me from my childhood
to describe a woman on horseback], and, as sometimes happens, had even too much of my happiness.
My friend Lady Francis is made of whalebone and india-rubber in equal proportions, very neatly
and elegantly fastened together with the finest steel springs, and is incapable of fatigue
from exertion, or injury from exposure.

Having an exalted idea of my capabilities in the way of horse exercise (which, indeed, when
I am in my usual condition, are pretty good), she started off with me to H----, a distance
of about eight miles, and we did the whole way there and back (besides an episodical gallop,
three times full tear round a field, to tame our horses, which were wild) either at a hard
gallop or a harder trot. I, who have grown fat and soft, and have hardly ridden since I left
America, came home bruised and beaten, and aching in every limb to that degree that I was glad
to lie down--conceive the humiliation!--and was much put to it to get up again to dress for
dinner; having, moreover, the consolation of being assured by Lady Francis that she had ridden
thus hard out of pure consideration for me; supposing that the faster I went, the better I
should be pleased. I was, besides, mounted upon a fiery little fiend of a pony, who pulled
my arms out of their sockets and would not walk. However, by repeating the dose every day,
I suffered less and less, and am now once more in excellent riding condition.

I remember a ludicrous circumstance of the same kind happening to me in America, on the occasion
of the first ride I ever took with my brother-in-law, who was then comparatively a stranger
to me. He was a cavalry officer, a capital horseman, and hard rider; which qualities he exhibited
the first time I ever went out with him, by riding at such a pace and for such a length of
time that, perceiving he did not kill himself, I asked if he was in the habit of killing his
horse every time he rode out; when he burst out laughing, and assured me that he thought he
was only conforming to my habitual pace.

Yesterday I varied my exercise, for I went out on horseback with Lord Lansdowne, and finding
the roads dangerously slippery for our horses, which were not sharped, when we were at some
distance from Bowood we dismounted, and gave them to the groom, and came home on foot, a distance
of three miles, which, carrying one's habit [riding-skirts in those days were very long], I
think was as good as four.

You cannot conceive anything more melancholy than the aspect of H----.... It was a miserable
day, dark, dismal, and foggy; the Manchester smoke came down, together with a penetrating cold
drizzle, like the defilement and weeping of irretrievable shame, and sin, and sorrow; and the
whole aspect of the place struck me with dismay. The house was shut up, and looked absolutely
deserted, not a soul stirring about it; the garden dismantled and out of order. Altogether,
the contrast of the whole scene to that which I remembered so bright, cheerful, gay, and lovely,
combined with the cause of its present condition, struck me as beyond measure mournful....

You ask after the welfare of my children's nurse, Anne; and I will tell you something comically
characteristic both of the individual and her nation. Here at Bowood she eats alone with the
children, as she has been in the habit of doing at home; but at Worsley the little ones dined
with us at our luncheon-table, and she ate in the housekeeper's room. Not knowing myself exactly
what would be the place assigned to an American nursery-maid in the society of the servants'
hall at Worsley, I inquired of her whether she was comfortable and well-treated. She said,
"Oh, yes, perfectly well;" but there seemed to me by her manner to be something or other amiss,
and upon my inquiring further, she said, "Well, then, Mrs. Butler, I'll tell you what it is:
I do wish they'd let me dine at the lower table. Everything is very good and very fine, to
be sure, and the people are very kind and civil to me, but I cannot bear to have men in livery
and maid-servants standing up behind my chair waiting on me, and that's the truth of it." She
said this with an air of such sincere discomfort that it was quite evident to me that if, in
common with her countrymen, she thought herself "as good as anybody," she certainly was not
seduced by the glories of the upper table into forgetting that any one was as good as she.

I was spared the discomfort of having the children in another house; for either Lady Francis
has fewer guests than she expected, or she had contrived to manage better than she had supposed
she could, for they were lodged under the same roof with me, and quite near enough for comfort
or convenience....

Thank you for your kindness in copying that account of Cavanagh for me; thank you, too, for
Archbishop Whately's book, which I read immediately. There is nothing in it that I have not
read before, nor certainly anything whatever to alter my opinion that the accumulation of enormous
wealth in the hands of individuals who transmit it to their eldest sons, who inherit it without
either mental or physical exertion of theirs, is an inevitable source of moral evil. There
was nothing in that book to shake my opinion that hereditary idleness and luxury are not good
for the country where they exist. An opinion was expressed in general conversation by almost
everybody at Worsley which suggested a conclusion to my mind that did not appear to occur to
any one else. In speaking of the education of young English boys at our great public schools,
the whole system pursued in those institutions was condemned as bad; but on all sides, nevertheless,
admitted to be better (at any rate, for the sons of noblemen) than the incessant, base, excessive
complaisance and flattery of their servants and dependents, from which they all said that it
was impossible to screen them in their own homes, and equally impossible that they should not
suffer serious moral evil. Lord Francis said that for a lad like his nephew, the Marquis of
Stafford, there was but one thing worse than being educated at Eton, and that was being educated
at home; therefore, concluded they all in chorus, we send our boys to our public schools. So
the children are sent away lest they should be corrupted by the obsequious servants and luxurious
habits and general mode of life of their parents. And this, of course, is one of the inevitable
results of distinctions of classes and hereditary wealth and influence; it is not one of the
good ones, but there are better.

God bless you, dearest Harriet. I wrote to you yesterday, and shall probably do so again to-morrow.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                     HARLEY STREET, LONDON, Sunday, December 26th, 1841.
  DEAR HARRIET,

I must tell you a droll little incident that occurred the day of our leaving Bowood. As I was
crossing the great hall, holding little F---- by the hand, Lord Lansdowne and Moore, who were
talking at the other end, came towards me, and, while the former expressed kind regrets at
our departure, Moore took up the child and kissed her, and set her down again; when she clutched
hold of my gown, and trotted silently out of the hall by my side. As the great red door closed
behind us, on our way to my rooms, she said, in a tone that I thought indicated some stifled
sense of offended dignity, "Pray, mamma, who was dat little dentleman?" Now, Harriet, though
Moore's fame is great, his stature is little, and my belief is that my three-year-old daughter
was suffering under an impression that she had been taken a liberty with by some enterprising
schoolboy. Oh, Harriet! think if one of his own Irish rosebuds of sixteen had received that
poet's kiss, how long it would have been before she would have washed that side of her face!
I believe if he had bestowed it upon me, I would have kept mine from water for its sake, till--bed-time.
Indeed, when first "Lalla Rookh" came out, I think I might have made a little circle on that
cheek, and dedicated it to Tom Moore and dirt forever; that is--till I forgot all about it,
and my habit of plunging my face into water whenever I dress got the better of my finer feelings.
But, you see, he didn't kiss my stupid little child's intelligent mother, and this is the way
that fool Fortune misbestows her favors. She is spiteful, too, that whirligig woman with the
wheel. I am not an autograph collector, of course; if I was, I shouldn't have got the prize
I received yesterday, when Rogers, after mending a pen for me, and tenderly caressing the nib
of it with a knife as sharp as his own tongue, wrote, in his beautiful, delicate, fine hand,
by way of trying it--

    "The path of sorrow, and that path alone,
    Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown."

Is that a quotation from himself or some one else? or was it an impromptu?--a seer's vision,
and friend's warning? Chi sa?

I cannot help being a little surprised at the earnestness with which you implore me to read
Archbishop Whately's treatise. My objection to reading of books never extends to any book either
given or lent, or strongly recommended to me. I am so fond of reading that I care very little
what I read, so well satisfied am I with the movement and activity which even the stupidest,
shallowest book rouses in my mind. With regard to the little work in question, you probably
thought the subject might not interest me, and therefore I should neglect it. The subject,
i.e., political economy, interests me so little that, though I have read at various times and
in sundry places publications of the same nature with much attention, they, in common with
other books on other subjects for which I do not care, have left not the slightest trace upon
my memory; at least, until I come to read the matter all over again, when my knowledge of it
reappears, as it were, on the surface of my mind, though it had seemed to me to run through
my brain like water through a sieve.

I have no doubt that from my mode of talking of different peoples, under various systems of
government, you would not suspect me of having ever looked into the simplest treatise on political
economy and similar subjects; but I have read most of the popular expositions of those grave
matters that the press now daily puts forth; but as they, for the most part, deal with things
as they are, and my cogitations are chiefly as to things as they should be, I do not find my
studies avail me much. I believe I wrote you word after reading the book you sent me, and thinking
it a very excellent abridged exposition of such subjects; I still could not understand what
it had to do with the theory of laws for the division of property, or the expediency of the
law of primogeniture, and the advantages of the distinctions of rank, to the societies where
they exist. The question seems to me rather whether these remains of feudalism have or have
not outlived their uses.

By-the-by, in taking off the cover in which you had wrapped the book, I did not perceive that
you had written upon it until I had thrown it into the fire. I assure you that at the moment
I was a great deal sorrier than if the worthy little volume itself had been grilling on the
top of the coals.

We returned here on Friday, and found my father and Adelaide going on much as usual. Half a
score of invitations, of one sort and another, waiting for us, and London, with its grim visage,
looking less lovely than ever after the sweet, tender, wintry beauty of Bowood; where one walked,
for a whole morning at a time, among hollies and laurels and glittering evergreens, which,
by the help of the sunshine we enjoyed while we were there, gave the lie triumphant to the
dead season.

I have been nurse almost all the day. Anne, who, poor girl! has had a long fast from her devotional
privileges, went to church, and I walked with the children to the broad gravel walk in the
Regent's Park, where I took that "exercise of agony" with you one afternoon; the day was much
the same too, bright and sunny above, and exceedingly muddy and hateful under foot. The servants
having their Christmas dinner to-day, I offered to take entire charge of the children, if Anne
liked to join the party downstairs. She affably condescended, and they prolonged the social
meal, or their after-dinner converse, for considerably more than two hours. Since that, I have
been reading to S----, and it is now time for me to dress for dinner.

Adelaide and I dined tête-à-tête to-day; my father dined with Miss Cottin. I have refused,
because it is Sunday; Adelaide, because she is lazy; but she means to make the effort to go
in the evening, and I shall go to bed early, and very glad I shall be to shut up shop, for
this has been a very heavy day. How well nurses ought to be paid!

God bless you, dear Harriet.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                            HARLEY STREET, Tuesday, December 28th, 1841.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I wrote you two long letters from Bowood, and one crossed note since I came back to town; yet
in a letter I get from you this morning you ask me when your letters are "coming to the top"
[of my packet of "my letters to be answered," to which I always replied in the succession in
which they reached me]; at which, I confess, I feel not a little dismayed. However, it is to
be hoped that you will get them sooner or later, and that, in this world or the next, you will
discover that I wrote to you two such letters, at such a time....

How can you ask me if I play fair with my letters? Are you not sure that I do? and, whatever
may be the case with my better qualities, are not my follies substantial, reliable, consistent,
constant follies, that are pretty sure to be found where you left them?

Good-bye, my dearest Harriet. I am terribly out of spirits, but it is near bed-time, and the
day will soon be done....

God bless you, dear. Give my kindest love to Dorothy. I am thinking of your return with earnest
longing.... As we passed the evening at the Hen and Chickens, in the same room where I began
reading you "Les Maîtres Mosaistes," on our return through Birmingham from the lately formed
association, your image was naturally very vivid in our memories.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     HARLEY STREET, December 28th, 1841.
  DEAREST GRANNY,

[This was an affectionate nickname that my friend Lady Dacre assumed towards me, and by which
I frequently addressed her], I do not mean this time to tax your forgiveness of injuries quite
so severely as before, though you really have such a pretty knack of generosity that it's a
pity not to give you an opportunity of exercising it.

Here we are again in our Harley Street abode, which, by favor of the fogs, smokes, and various
lovely December complexions of London, looks but grimly after the evergreen shrubberies and
bowers of Bowood, which I saw the evening before I came away to peculiar advantage, under the
light of an unclouded moon. I left there the goodliest company conceivable: Rogers, Moore,
Macaulay, Charles Austen, Mr. Dundas, Charles Greville, and Westmacott: so much for the mankind.
Then there was dear old Miss Fox [Lord Holland's sister], whom I love, and Lady Harriet Baring
[afterwards Lady Ashburton], whom I do not love, which does not prevent her being a very clever
woman; and that exceedingly pretty and intelligent Baroness Louis Rothschild, et cetera. It
was a brilliant party, but they were all so preternaturally witty and wise that, to tell you
the truth, dear Granny, they occasionally gave me the mind-ache.

As for Macaulay, he is like nothing in the world but Bayle's Dictionary, continued down to
the present time, and purified from all objectionable matter. Such a Niagara of information
did surely never pour from the lips of mortal man!

I think our pilgrimages are pretty well over for the present, unless the Duke of Rutland should
remember a particularly courteous invitation he gave us to go to Belvoir some time about Christmas--a
summons which we should very gladly obey, as I suppose there are not many finer places in England
or out of it.

I am sorry you have parted with Forrester [a horse Lady Dacre had named after a favorite horse
of mine]; I liked to fancy my dear old horse's namesake at the Hoo.

Give my love to Lord Dacre, and my well-beloved B---- and G---- [Lady Dacre's granddaughters].
I am glad the former is dancing, because I like it so much myself. I look forward to seeing
you all in the spring, and in the mean time remain, dear Granny,

                              Yours most affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [I became subsequently well acquainted with Lord Macaulay, but no
    familiarity ever diminished my admiration of his vast stores of
    knowledge, or my amazement at his abundant power of communicating
    them.

    In my visits to the houses of my friends, alike those with whom I
    was most and least intimate, I always passed a great deal of my time
    in my own room, and never remained in the drawing-room until after
    dinner, having a decided inclination for solitude in the morning and
    society in the evening. I used, however, to look in during the
    course of the day, upon whatever circle might be gathered in the
    drawing or morning rooms, for a few minutes at a time, and remember,
    on this occasion of my meeting Macaulay at Bowood, my amazement at
    finding him always in the same position on the hearth-rug, always
    talking, always answering everybody's questions about everything,
    always pouring forth eloquent knowledge; and I used to listen to him
    till I was breathless with what I thought ought to have been his
    exhaustion.

    As one approached the room, the loud, even, declamatory sound of his
    voice made itself heard like the uninterrupted flow of a fountain.
    He stood there from morning till evening, like a knight in the
    lists, challenging and accepting the challenge of all comers. There
    never was such a speech-"power," and as the volume of his voice was
    full and sonorous, he had immense advantages in sound as well as
    sense over his adversaries. Sydney Smith's humorous and good-humored
    rage at his prolific talk was very funny. Rogers's, of course, was
    not good-humored; and on this very occasion, one day at breakfast,
    having two or three times uplifted his thread of voice and fine
    incisive speech against the torrent of Macaulay's holding forth,
    Lord Lansdowne, the most courteous of hosts, endeavored to make way
    for him with a "You were saying, Mr. Rogers?" when Rogers hissed
    out, "Oh, what I was saying will keep!"

    I have spoken of Macaulay's discourse as a torrent; it was rather
    like the smooth and copious stream of the Aqua Paola, a comparison
    which it constantly suggested to me; the resonant, ceaseless, noble
    volume of water, the great fountain perpetually poured forth, was
    like the sonorous sound and affluent flow of his abundant speech,
    and the wide, eventful Roman plain, with all its thronging memories
    of past centuries, seen from the Janiculum, was like the vast and
    varied horizon of his knowledge, forever swept by his prodigious
    memory.]

                          HARLEY STREET, Wednesday, December 29th, 1841.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Just imagine my ecstasy in answering your last letter, dated the 24th! I actually do up the
whole of that everlasting bundle of letters, which is a sort of waking nightmare to me.

I have been within two or three of the last for the last week, and having seldom seen myself
so very near the end, I had a perfect fever of desire to exist, if only for a day, without
having a single letter to answer. And now that I have tossed into the fire a note of Charles
Greville's, which I have just replied to, and have unfolded your last and do the same by it,
i.e. answer and burn it, the yellow silk cord that bound that ominous bundle of obligations
lies empty on the inkstand, and I feel like Charles Lamb escaping from his India House clerkship,
a perfect lord, or rather lady, of unlimited leisure.

You ask me if I think letters will go on to be answered in eternity? That supposition, my dear,
involves the ideas of absence and epistolary labor, both of which may be included in the torments
of the damned, but, according to my notions of heaven, there will be no letter-writing there.
As, however, the receiving of letters is, in my judgment, a pleasure extremely worthy to be
numbered among the enjoyments of the blessed, I conclude that letters will occasionally come
to heaven, and always be written in--the other place; so perhaps our correspondence may continue
hereafter. Who the writer and who the receiver shall be remains to be proved (it's my belief
that the use of pen and ink would have made any one of the circles of the Inferno tolerable
to you); and in any case, those are epistles that it is not necessary to antedate. Klopstock
wrote and published--did he not?--letters which he wrote to his wife Meta in heaven. The answers
are not extant; perhaps they were in an inferior style, humanly speaking, and he considerately
suppressed them.

But to speak seriously, you forget in your query one of the principal doubts that exercise
my mind, i.e., whether there will be any continuation of communion at all hereafter between
those who have been friends on earth; whether the relations of human beings to each other here
are not merely a part of our spiritual experience, that portion of the education and progress
of our souls that will terminate with this phase of our existence and be succeeded by other
influences, new ones, fitted as these former have been to our (new) needs and conditions, by
the Great Governor of our being. He alone knows; He will provide for them....

The Coutts and Lord Strangford business (a dirty piece of money-scandal) is nice enough, but
I heard a still nicer sequel to it at Bowood the other day. The gentlemen of the party were
discussing the matter, and seemed all agreed upon the subject of Lord Strangford's innocence;
but while declaring unanimously that the accusation was unfounded and unwarrantable, they added
it was not half as bad as an attack of the same sort made by one of the papers upon Lords Normanby
and Canterbury, which, after much discussion, was supposed to have been dictated entirely by
political animosity; the sole motive assigned for the selection of those two men as the objects
of such an odious accusation being the fact of their personal want of popularity, and also
that they were known to be needy men, whose fortunes were considerably crippled by their extravagance.

Of course, lie-makers must make plausibility one element of their craft; but this did seem
a pleasant specimen of the manufacture. To be sure, I am bound to add that this account came
from Whigs, and the attack was made by a Tory paper upon two members of the ex-Government;
so you may believe it or not, according as you are Whig or Tory inclined to-day (that is to
say, the motives assigned); the attack itself is not matter of doubt, having been visibly printed
in one or more of the Tory papers. Both parties, however, have, I suppose, their staff of appointed
technical and professional liars.

Good-bye, dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                           HARLEY STREET, Thursday, December 30th, 1841.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

... I am a little surprised at your writing to me about my rule of correspondence as you do,
because in several instances when you have particularly desired me to answer you immediately,
I have done so; and should always do so, not by you alone, but by any one who requested an
immediate reply to a letter. If it were in my power to answer such a communication on the same
day, I should certainly do it, and, under such circumstances, always have done so. As for my
rule of letter-writing, absurd as some of its manifestations undoubtedly are, it is not, I
think, absurd per se; and I adopted it as more likely to result in justice to all my correspondents
than any other I could follow. I have a great dislike to letter-writing, and, were I to consult
my own disinclination, instead of answering letter for letter with the most scrupulous conscientiousness
as I do, even the persons I love best would be very apt to hear from me once or twice a year,
and perhaps, indulgence increasing the incapacity and disinclination to write (as the example
of every member of my own family shows it must), I should probably end by never writing at all.

I have always thought it most desirable to answer letters on the same day that I received them;
but, of course, this is not always possible; and my rather numerous correspondence causing
often a rapid accumulation of letters, I have thought, when such an arrearage took place, the
fittest thing to do was to answer first those received first, and so discharge my debts justly
in point of time. With regard to replying to questions contained in letters received some time
back, my scrupulousness has to do with my own convenience, as well as my correspondents' gratification.
Writing as much as I do, I am, as Rosalind calls it, "gravelled for matter" occasionally, and
in that emergency a specific question to answer becomes a real godsend; and, my cue once given
me, I can generally contrive to fill my paper. I do not think you know how much I dislike letter-writing,
and what an effort it sometimes costs me, when my spirits are at the lowest ebb, and my mind
so engrossed with disheartening contemplations, that any exertions (but violent physical ones,
which are my salvation for the most part) appear intolerable.

But I ought to tell you about our journey from Bowood, which threatened to be more adventurous
than agreeable. We did, as you suppose, come down the railroad only a few hours after the occurrence
of the accident. When we started from Chippenham, some surprise was expressed by the guards
and railroad officials that the early train from London had not yet come up. Farther on, coming
to a place where there was but one track, we were detained half an hour, from the apprehension
that, as the other train had not yet come up, we might, by going upon the single line, encounter
it, and the collision occasion some terrible accident. After waiting about half an hour, and
ascertaining (I suppose) that the other train was not coming, we proceeded, and soon learned
what had retarded it. On the spot where the accident took place the bank had made a tremendous
slide; numbers of workmen were busy in removing the earth from the track; the engine, which
had been arrested in its course by this impediment, was standing half on the line, half on
the bank; planks and wheels and fragments of wood were strewed all round; and a crowd of people,
with terrified eager faces, were gazing about in that vague love of excitement which makes
sights and places of catastrophes, to a certain degree, delectable to human beings.

I cannot help thinking, dear Harriet, that this sad accident, sad enough as I admit it to be
for the relations and friends of the dead, was not so particularly terrible as far as the individuals
themselves were concerned. God only knows how I may feel when I am struck, either in my own
life or that of any one I love; but hitherto death has not appeared to me the awful calamity
that people generally seem to consider it. The purpose of life alone, time wherein to do God's
will, makes it sacred. I do not think it pleasant enough to wish to keep it for a single instant,
without the idea of the duty of living, since God has bid us live. The only thought which makes
me shrink from the notion of suicide is the apprehension that to this life another might succeed,
as full of storm, of strife, of disappointment, difficulty, and unrest as this; and with that
uncertainty overshadowing it, death has not much to recommend it. It is poor Hamlet's "perchance"
that is the knot of the whole question, never here to be untied.

Involuntarily, we certainly hope for better things, for respite, for rest, for enfranchisement
from the thraldom of some of our passions and affections, the goods and bonds that spur us
through this life and fasten us to it. We--perhaps I ought to say I--involuntarily connect
the idea of death with that of peace and repose; delivery, at any rate, from some subjugation
to sin, and from some subjection to "the ills we know" (though it may be none of this), so
that my first feeling about it is generally that it is a happy rather than a deplorable event
for the principals concerned; but then comes the loss of the living, and I perceive very well
how my heart would bleed if those I love were taken from me. I see my own desolation and agony
in that case, but still feel as if I could rejoice for them; for, after all, life is a heavy
burden on a weary way, and I never saw the human being whose existence was what I should call
happy. I have seen some whose lives were so good that they justified their own existence, and
one could conceive both why they lived and that they found it good to live.

Of course, this is instinctive feeling; reflection compels one to acknowledge the infinite
value of existence, for the purposes of spiritual progress and improvement; the education of
the soul; but my nature, impatient of restraint and pain and trial (and therefore most in need
of the discipline of life), always rejoices at the first aspect of death, as at that of the
Deliverer. Sudden death I certainly pray for, rather than against, and I think my father and
sister were horrified and indignant at my saying that I could not conceive a better way of
dying than being smashed, as we were all together, on that railway, dashed to pieces in a moment,
like those eight men who perished there the other day.... This drew forth a suggestion that,
if such were my sentiments, we had better hire a carriage on the Brighton railroad, and keep
incessantly running up and down the line, by which means there would be every probability of
my dying in the way I thought most desirable.

I wish you would just step over from Ireland and spend the evening with me; Adelaide and my
father will be at the theatre....

God bless you, dearest Harriet.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Some years after writing this letter, having returned to the stage,
    I was fulfilling an engagement at the Hull theatre, and as I stood
    at the side scene, waiting to go on, two poor young girls were
    standing near me, of that miserable class from which the temporarily
    employed supernumeraries of country theatres are recruited. One of
    them, who looked as if she was dying of consumption, and coughed
    incessantly, said to her companion, who remarked upon it, "Yes, I go
    on so pretty much all the time, and I have a mind sometimes to kill
    myself." "That's running away from school, my child," said I. "Don't
    do it, for you can't tell whether you mayn't be put to just as hard
    or even a harder life to finish your lesson in another world." "O
    Lord, ma'am!" said the girl, "I never thought of that." "But I have
    very often," said I to her, as I went on the stage to finish my
    mumming.

    The strange ignorance of all the conditions of life (except their
    own most wretched ones), even those but a few degrees removed from
    their own, of these poor creatures, betrayed itself in their
    awestruck admiration of my stage ornaments, which they took for real
    jewels. "Oh, but," said I, as they gazed at them with wonder, "if
    they were real jewels, you know, I should sell them to live, and not
    come to the theatre to act for my bread every night." "Oh, wouldn't
    you, ma'am?" exclaimed they, amazed that so blissful an occupation
    as that of a stage star, radiant with "such diamonds," should not be
    all that heart of woman could desire. Poor things--all of us!]

                                       HARLEY STREET, January 1st, 1842.

It is New Year's Day, my dearest Harriet. May God bless you. You will, I hope, receive to-day
my account of my journey home from Bowood. Any anxiety you might have felt about us was certain
to be dispelled by the note I despatched to you after our arrival, and as to the accident which
took place on the railroad, I have nothing to tell you about it more than you would see in
the newspapers, and it did not occur to me to mention it.

I read with attention the newspaper article you sent me about the corn laws and the currency,
and, though I did not quite understand all the details given on the latter subject, yet the
main question is one that I have been so familiar with lately as to have comprehended, I believe,
the general sense of it. But I read it at Bowood, and though, as I assure you, with the greatest
attention, I do not remember a single word of it now (the invariable practice of my memory
with any subject that is entirely uncongenial to me).

The mischievous influence of the undue extension of the credit system is matter of daily discussion
and daily illustration, I am sorry to say, in the United States, where, in spite of their easy
institutions, boundless space, and inexhaustible real sources of credit (the wealth of the
soil and its agricultural and universal products), and all the commercial advantages which
their comparatively untrammelled conditions afford them, they are all but bankrupt now; distressed
at home and disgraced abroad by the excess to which this pernicious system of trading upon
fictitious capital has been carried by eager, grasping, hastening-to-be-rich people. Of course,
the same causes must tend to produce the same effects everywhere, though different circumstances
may partially modify the results; and in proportion as this vicious system has prevailed with
us in England, its consequences must, at some time or other, culminate in sudden severe pressure
upon the trading and manufacturing interests, and I suppose, of course, upon all classes of
the industrial population of the country. The difficult details of finance, and their practical
application to the currency question, have not often been understood, and therefore not often
relished by me whenever I have attempted to master them; but I have heard them frequently and
vehemently discussed by the advocates of both paper money and coin currency; I have read all
the manifestoes upon the subject put forth by Mr. Nicholas Biddle, late President of the United
States Bank, who is supposed to have understood finance well, though the unfortunate funds
committed to his charge do not appear to have been the safer for that circumstance.... The
failure of the United States Bank has been sometimes considered as a political catastrophe,
the result of party animosity and personal enmity towards Mr. Biddle on the part of General
Jackson, who, being then President of the United States, gave a fatal blow to the credit of
the bank (which, though calling itself the United States Bank, was not a Government institution)
by removing from its custody the Government deposits. My impression upon the subject (simple,
as I have no doubt you would expect to find the result of any mental process of mine) is that
paper money is a financial expedient, the substitution of an appearance or makeshift for a
real thing, and likely, like all other such substitutes of whatever kind, to become a source
of shame, trouble, and ruin whenever, after the appointed time of circulation, which every
expedient has, there should be a demand for the real article; more especially if the shadow
has imposed upon the world by being twice as big as the substance.

The papers and pamphlets you have sent me, dear Harriet, seem to me only to prove that excessive
and unjust taxation, partial and unjust corn laws, and unwise financial ones (together with
other causes, which seem to me ominous of evil results), have produced the distress, embarrassment,
and discontent existing in this, the richest and most enlightened country in the world....

I have been interrupted half a dozen times while writing this letter, once by a long visit
from Mrs. Jameson.... Lady M---- called too, with a pretty little widow, a Mrs. M----, a great
friend of Adelaide's. Dearest Harriet, here my letter was broken off yesterday morning, Friday;
it is now Saturday evening, and this morning arrived two long ones from America. Now, if I
should get one to-morrow or the next day, from you, will it be very unjust to put yours under
these, and answer them before I write any more to you? I think not, but I must make an end
of this....

Good-bye, and God bless you.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                              HARLEY STREET, Tuesday, January 4th, 1842.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

... You say you wonder that those who love and worship Christ should be wanting in patience
and the spirit of endurance. Do you not wonder, too, that they should fail in self-denial,
charity, mercy, all the virtues of their Divine Model? But this is a terrible chapter, and
sad subject of speculation for all of us, and I can't bear to speak upon it.

In talking once with my sister of self-condemnation, and our condemnation of others, I used
an expression which she took up as eminently ridiculous; but I think she did not quite understand
me. I said that there was a feeling of modesty which prevented one's uttering the extent of
one's own self-accusations, at which she laughed very much, and said she thought that modesty
ought to interfere in behalf of others as well as one's self; but there are some reasons why
it does not. Severely as one may judge and blame others, it is always, of course, with the
perception that one cannot know the whole of the case for or against them; nevertheless, even
with this conviction, there are certain words and deeds of others which one condemns unhesitatingly.
Such sentences as these I pronounce often and without scruple (harshly, perhaps, and therein
committing most mischievous, foul sin in chiding sin), but one does not utter that which one
feels more rarely (however strongly, in particular instances), one's impression of the evil
tendency of a whole character, the weakness or wickedness, the disease which pervades the whole
moral constitution, and which seems to denote certain inevitable results; on these one hesitates
to pronounce opinion, not so much, I think, because of the uncertainty one feels, as in the
case of a special motive, or temptation to any special act, and the liability to mistake, both
in the quality of motive and quality of temptation; as because so much deeper a condemnation
is involved in such judgments. It is the difference between a physician's opinion on an acute
attack of illness or a radical and fatal constitutional tendency. This sort of condemnation
requires such intimate knowledge that one can hardly pass it upon any but one's self. One cannot
tear off all coverings from the hearts and minds of others, whereas one could strip one's own
moral deformities naked, and that species of self-accusation does seem to me a kind of immodesty.
One naturally shrinks, too, from speaking of deep and awful things, and then there is the all
but insuperable difficulty of putting one's most intimate convictions, the realities of one's
soul, into words at all....

Oh, my dear Harriet, I have told you nothing of John and Natalia's mesmeric practices [my brother
and his German wife]. If you could have seen them, you would have split your lean sides more
than you did at my aspect and demeanor while listening to A---- reading her favorite French
novels to me.

By-the-by, do you know that that very book, "Mathilde," which I could not listen to for a quarter
of an hour with common patience, is cried up everywhere and by everybody as a most extraordinary
production? At Bowood everybody was raving about it; Mrs. Jameson tells me that Carlyle excepted
it from a general anathema on French novels. Sometimes I think I will try again to get through
it, and then I think, as little F---- says when she is requested to do something that she ought,
"Eelly, now, me tan not."

I am finishing George Sand's "Lettres d'un Voyageur," because in an evil hour I began them.
Her style is really admirable, and in this book one escapes the moral (or immoral) complications
of her stories.

God bless you, dear Harriet. Good-bye. Time and opportunity serving, you surely see that I
am not only faithful, but prompt, in the discharge of my debts.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

I forgot to tell you that my poor Margery [my children's former nurse] has at length applied
to the tribunals of Pennsylvania for a separation from her cruel and worthless husband. Poor
thing! I hope she will obtain it.

    [The tribunals of Pennsylvania followed, in the law of divorce, the
    German and not the English precedent and process. Divorce was
    granted by them, as well as mere separation, on plea of
    incompatibility of temper, and also for cause of non-cohabitation
    during a space of two years. In regard to the laws of marriage and
    divorce, as well as most other matters, each state in the Union had
    its own peculiar code, agreeing or differing from the rest. The
    Massachusetts laws of marriage and divorce were, I believe, the same
    as the English. In Pennsylvania a much greater facility for
    obtaining divorce--adopted, I suppose, from German modes of thought
    and feeling, and perhaps German legislature--prevailed, while in
    some of the western states, more exclusively occupied by a German
    population, the facility with which the bond of marriage was
    dissolved was greater than in any civilized Christian community in
    the world, I think.]

                                      HARLEY STREET, January 16th, 1842.

At the end of a long, kind letter I received from you this morning, dearest Harriet, there
is a most sudden and incomprehensible sentence, an incoherent, combined malediction upon yourself
and your dog Bevis, which I found it difficult to connect in any way with the matter which
preceded it, which was very good advice to me, abruptly terminating in a declaration that you
were a fool and your dog Bevis a brute, and leaving me to conclude either that he had overturned
your inkstand or that you had gone mad, though indeed your two propositions are sane enough:
for the first I would contradict if I could; the second I could not if I would; and so, as
the Italians say, "Sono rimasta." ...

With regard to the likeness between my sister and myself, it is as great as our unlikeness....
Our mode of perceiving and being affected by things and people is often identical, and our
impressions frequently so similar and so simultaneous that we both often utter precisely the
same words upon a subject, so that it might seem as if one of us might save the other the trouble
of speaking.... She is a thousand times quicker, keener, finer, shrewder, and sweeter than
I am, and all my mental processes, compared with hers, are slow, coarse, and clumsy.

Here my letter broke off yesterday morning, and yesterday evening I went to see the new opera,
so that I shall have realities instead of speculations to treat you to. [The opera was an English
version of the "Elena da Feltre," by Mercadante, whose dramatic compositions, "La Vestale,"
"Le Due Illustre Rivale," the "Elena da Feltre," and others, obtained a very considerable temporary
popularity in Italy, but were, I think, little known elsewhere. They were not first-rate musical
productions, but had a good deal of agreeable, though not very original, melody, and were favorable
to a declamatory, passionate style of singing, having a great deal of dramatic power and pathos.
My sister was fond of them, and gave them with great effect, and the celebrated prima donna,
Madame Ungher, achieved great popularity and excited immense enthusiasm in some of them.]

The opera was entirely successful, owing certainly to Adelaide, for the music is not agreeable,
or of an order to become popular; the story is rather involved, which, however, as people have
books to help them to it, does not so much matter. She was beautifully and becomingly dressed
in mediæval Italian costume, and looked very handsome. Her voice was, as usual, very much affected
by her nervousness, and comparatively feeble; this, however, signifies little, as it is only
on the first night that it occurs, and every succeeding representation, her anxiety being less,
she recovers more power of voice.

She acted extremely well, so as again to excite in me the strongest desire to see her in an
acting part; a desire which is only qualified by the consideration that she makes more money
at present as a singer than she probably could as an actress. At the end of the piece she died,
with one of those expressions of feeling the effect of which may, without exaggeration, be
called electrifying: it made me spring on my seat, and the whole audience responded with that
voice of human sympathy that any true representation of feeling elicits instantaneously. Having
renounced her lover, and married a man she hated, to save her father's life, after seeing her
lover go to church and be married to another woman, her father being nevertheless executed
(an old story, no doubt, but that's no matter), she loses her senses and stabs herself, and
as she falls into the arms of her husband (the man she hated) she sees her lover, who just
arrives at this moment, and the dying spring which she made, with her arms stretched towards
him, falling, before she reached him, dead on the ground, was one of those terrible and touching
things which the stage only can reproduce from nature--I mean, out of reality itself--a thing
that of course neither painting nor sculpture could attempt, and that would have been comparatively
cold and ineffective even in poetry, but which "in action" was indescribably pathetic. It had
been, like many happy dramatic effects, a sudden thought with her, for it had only occurred
to her yesterday morning; but the grace of the action, its beauty, truth, and expressiveness,
are not to be conveyed by words. You will see it; not that, indeed, it may ever again be so
very happy a thing in its effect....

God bless you, dear Harriet. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      HARLEY STREET, January 31st, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Why do you ask me if I would not write to you unless you wrote to me? Do you not know perfectly
well that I would not--unless, indeed, I thought you were ill or something was the matter with
you; and then I would write just enough to find out if such was the case. Why should I write
to you, when I hate writing, and yet nevertheless always answer letters? Surely the spontaneous,
or promiscuous (which did you call it, you Irishwoman?) epistle should come from the person
who does not profess to labor under an inkophobia. And what can you righteously complain of,
when I not only never fail scrupulously to answer your letters, but, be they long or short,
invariably answer them abundantly, having as great an objection to writing a short letter almost
as I have to writing any? Basta! never doubt any more about the matter, my dear Harriet. I
never (I think) shall write to you, but I also (I think) shall never fail to answer you. If
you are not satisfied with that, I can't help it.... We have a lull in our engagements just
now--comparative quiet. We gave a family dinner on Friday.... My father, I am sorry to say,
gets no rent from the theatre. The nights on which my sister does not sing the house is literally
empty. Alas! it is the old story over again: that whole ruinous concern is propped only by
her. That property is like some fate to which our whole family are subject, by which we are
every one of us destined to be borne down by turn, after vainly dedicating ourselves to its rescue.

On Saturday I spent the evening at Lady Charlotte Lindsay's, who has a very kind regard for
you, and spoke of your brother Barry with great affection. To-morrow, after going to the opera,
I shall go to Miss Berry's. My sister and father go to Apsley House, where the Duke of Wellington
gives a grand entertainment to the King of Prussia. We were asked too, but, though rather tempted
by the fine show, it was finally concluded that we should not go, so we shall only have it
at second hand. This is all my news for the present, dear Harriet. God bless you. Good-bye.
If you ever wish to hear from me, drop me a line to that effect.

                              Ever yours (and the same),
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Circumstances occurred which induced us to change our plans, and I
    did go to the fête at Apsley House, which was very beautiful and
    magnificent.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

At twelve o'clock to-day I rang for candles, in order that the fog might not prevent my answering
your letter. I was obliged to go out, however, and the skies in the interim have cleared; and
where do you think I have been? Why, like a fool as I am, to see a sight, and I am well paid
by feeling so tired, and having such a headache, and having had such a fright, that--it serves
me right.

Our dear friend Harness has, as perhaps you know, an office which Lord Lansdowne gave him,
by virtue of which he occupies a very pleasant apartment in the Council Office Building, the
windows of which look out on Whitehall. Here he begged me to come and bring the children, that
we might see the Queen, and the King of Prussia, and all the great folks, go to the opening
of Parliament, and in an evil hour I consented, Harness informing me at what hour to come,
and what way to take to avoid the crowd. But the carriage was ordered half an hour later than
we ought to have started, and the coachman was ordered to take us down Whitehall (though Harness
had warned me that we could not come that way, and that we must leave our carriage at the Carlton
Terrace steps, and walk across the park to the little passage which leads straight into Downing
Street). Down Whitehall, however, we attempted to go, and were of course turned back by the
police. We then retraced our route to the Carlton steps, and here, with the two children, Anne,
and the footman, I made my way through the crowd; but oh, what a way! and what a crowd! When
we got down into the park, the only clear space was the narrow line left open for the carriages,
and some of them were passing at a rapid trot, just as we found our way into their road, and
the dense wall of human beings we had squeezed through closed behind us. I assure you, Harriet,
the children were not half a foot from one of those huge carriage-horses, nor was there any
means of retreat; the living mass behind us was as compact as brick and mortar. We took a favorable
moment, and, rushing across the road into the protecting arms of some blessed, benevolent policemen,
who were keeping the line, were seized, and dragged, and pushed, and pulled, and finally made
way for, through the crowd on the other side, and then ran, without stopping, till we reached
our destination; but the peril of the children, and the exertion of extricating them and ourselves
from such a situation, had been such that, on reaching Harness's rooms, I shook so that I could
hardly stand, and the imperturbable Anne actually burst into tears. So much for the delights
of sight-seeing.

As for me, you know I would not go to the end of the street to see the finest thing in the
universe; but, in the first place, I had promised, and in the next, I was so miserably out
of spirits that, though I could not bear to go out, I could not bear to stay at home; but certainly,
my detestation of running after a sight was never more heartily confirmed.

The concourse was immense, but I was much surprised at the entire want of excitement and enthusiasm
in the vast multitude who thronged and all but choked up the Queen's way. All hats were lifted,
but there was not a hatful of cheers, and the whole thing produced a disagreeable effect of
coldness, indifference, or constraint.

Harness said it was nineteenth-century breeding, which was too exquisite to allow even of the
mob's shouting. He is a Tory. T---- M----, who is a very warm Whig, thought the silence spoke
of Paisley starvation and Windsor banquets. I thought these and other things besides might
have to do with the people's not cheering.

E---- (who, bless her soul! has just been here, talking such gigantic nonsense) must have misunderstood
me, or you must have misunderstood her, in supposing that I made a distinct promise to answer
four crossed sheets of paper to four lines of yours. I said it was my usual practice to do
so, and one from which I was not likely to depart, because I hate writing a short letter as
much as I hate writing any letter at all....

Have you received one letter from me since you have been in Mountjoy Square? I have written
one to you there, but, owing to the habit of my hand, which is to write "Ardgillan Castle,"
the direction was so scratched and blurred that I had some doubts whether the letter would
reach you. Let me know, dear Harriet, if it does....

E---- must have made another blunder about Lady Westmoreland and my sister. It is not the Duke
of Wellington's money, in particular, that she objects to receiving; she does not intend to
sing in private for money at all, anywhere, or on any occasion; which I am very glad of, as,
if she did, I think social embarrassments and professional complications of every sort, and
all disagreeable ones, would arise from it.

We were all very cordially invited to Apsley House by Lady Westmoreland, before my sister stated
that she did not intend to sing there for money.... Besides this, there came a formal bidding
in the Duke of Wellington's own hand [or Algernon Greville's, who used to forge his illustrious
chief's signature on all common occasions], with which we were very well pleased to comply....

A---- has been trying to inoculate me with Paul de Kock, who, she assures me, is a moral writer,
and with whose books our tables, chairs, sofas, and beds are covered, as with the unclean plagues
of Egypt. I read one of the novels and began another. They are very clever, very funny, very
dirty, abominably immoral, and I do not think I can read any more of them; for though I confess
to having laughed till my sides ached over some parts of what I read, I was, upon reflection
and upon the whole, disgusted and displeased....

I have precisely your feeling about Mrs. F---- in every particular; I think her the funniest
and the kindest old maniac I am acquainted with, and my intercourse with her is according to
that opinion. Good-bye, my dearest Harriet; God bless you. I wish I was where I could see green
fields. I am in miserable spirits, and would give "my kingdom for a horse," and the world for
an hour's gallop in the country.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [My dear and excellent friend the Rev. William Harness refused from
    conscientious motives to hold more than one Church benefice, though
    repeated offers of livings were made to him by various of his
    influential friends. Lord Lansdowne, who had a very affectionate
    esteem for him, gave him the civil office I have alluded to in this
    letter, and this not being open to Mr. Harness's scruples with
    regard to sacred sinecures, he accepted. His means were always
    small, his charities great, and his genial hospitality unfailing. He
    was one of the simplest, most modest, unpretending, honorable,
    high-minded, warm hearted human beings I have ever known. Goodness
    appeared easy to him--the best proof how good he was.]

                                      HARLEY STREET, February 5th, 1842.
  DEAR HARRIET,

I did not care very much about the fête itself at Apsley House, but I was very glad to go to
it upon the Duke of Wellington's invitation, and felt as much honored and gratified by that
as I could be by any such sort of thing. My sister did sing for them, though, poor thing! not
very well. She had just gone through the new opera, and was besides laboring under a terrible
cough and cold, through which, I am sorry to say, she has been singing for the last week. There
was no particular reason for her not taking money at that concert. She does not intend to be
paid for singing in society at all.... Of course, her declining such engagements will greatly
diminish her income, popular singers making nearly half their earnings by such means; but I
am sure that, situated as we all are, she is right, and will avoid a good many annoyances by
this determination, though her pocket will suffer for it....

I know nothing whatever, of course, about the statements in the papers, which I never look
at, about the financial disgraces and embarrassments in America. The United States Bank (in
which my father had put four thousand pounds, which he could ill spare) is swept from the face
of the earth, and everybody's money put into it has been like something thrust down a gaping
mouth that had no stomach; it has disappeared in void space, and is irredeemably lost. I have
seven thousand pounds in the New Orleans banks, which I have given my father for his life.
Those banks, it is said, are sound, and will ere long resume specie payments, and give dividends
to their stockholders. Amen, so be it. It is affirmed that Mr. Biddle's prosecution will lead
to nothing, but that the state of Pennsylvania will pay its debts, means to do so, and will
be able to do so without any difficulty.... God bless you, dear Harriet. Write to me soon again,
for, though I do hate answering you, I hate worse not hearing from you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

I am glad you liked "Les Maîtres Mosaistes;" I think it charming. Thank you for your "Enfant
du Peuple." I have been trying some Paul de Kock, but cannot get on with it.

    [Of Madame George Sand's few unobjectionable books, "Les Maîtres
    Mosaistes" seems to me the best. As an historical picture of Venice
    and its glorious period of supremacy in art, it is admirable. As a
    pathetic human history, it is excellent; with this drawback,
    however, that in it the author has avoided the subject of the
    relations between the sexes--her invariable rock ahead, both morally
    and artistically; and it is by the entire omission of the important
    element of love that this work of hers is free from the reproach the
    author never escapes when she treats of it. It is a great pity her
    fine genius has so deep a flaw.]

                                     HARLEY STREET, February 11th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

... I want to know if you can come to us on the 20th of this month, instead of the 1st of March,
as I expected you. I believe I told you that the Duke of Rutland, when we met him at the Arkwrights',
at Sutton, gave us all a very kind invitation to Belvoir, which we accepted, and have been
expecting since that some more definite intimation when the time of our visit would be convenient.
He called here the other day, but we were none of us at home, and this morning we and my father
heard from him, recalling our promise to go to Belvoir, and begging us to fix any time between
this and the month of April. Now, the only time when my sister can go, poor child! is during
Passion Week; and as I am very anxious that she should have the refreshment of a week in the
country, and her being with us will be a great addition to my own enjoyment, I want to appoint
that time for our visit to the Duke of Rutland. That, however, happens about the 20th of March,
when I expected you to be with us; but if, by coming earlier, you can give me as long a visit
as you had promised me, without inconveniencing yourself, I shall be glad, dear Harriet; for
though we can go to Belvoir at any time before or after March, I wish my sister not to lose
a pleasant visit to a beautiful place.

To tell you the truth, it would be a great pleasure to me that you should come so much sooner
than I had reckoned upon having you; and as Emily and I trotted round Portman Square together
to-day, we both made out that, if you come into this arrangement, you will be here on Tuesday
week, which appears to me in itself delightful. Let me know, dear, what you decide, as I shall
not answer the Duke of Rutland until I have heard from you.

I promise myself much pleasure from seeing Belvoir. The place, with which I am familiar through
engravings and descriptions, is a fine house in one of the finest situations in England; and
the idea of being out of London once more, in the country and on horseback, is superlatively
agreeable to me.

And now, my dearest, to answer your letter, which I got this morning. For pity's sake, let
Lady Westmoreland rest, for the present; we will take her up again, if expedient, when we meet....
The Duke of Wellington called here the other day, and brought an exceedingly pretty bracelet
and amiable note to my sister; both which, as you may suppose, she values highly, as she ought
to do.

About the cheering of the Queen on her way to Parliament the other day, I incline to think
the silence was universal, for everybody with whom I was observed it, except Charles Greville,
who swore she was applauded; but then he is deaf, and therefore hears what no one else can.
Moreover, the majority of spectators were by no means well-dressed people; the streets were
thronged with pure mobocracy, to a degree unprecedented on any previous occasion of the sort,
and, though there was no exhibition of ill-feeling towards the Queen or any of the ministers,
there was no demonstration of good will beyond the usual civility of lifting the hats as she
passed. Indeed, Horace Wilson told me that, when he was crossing the park at the time of her
driving through it, there was some--though not much--decided hissing.

Your lamentation over my want of curiosity reminds me that on this very occasion Charles Greville
offered to take me all over the Coldbath Fields Prison, and show me the delights of the treadmill,
etc., and expressed great astonishment that I did not enthusiastically accept this opportunity
of seeing such a cheerful spectacle, and still more amazement at my general want of enlightened
curiosity, which he appeared to consider quite unworthy of so intelligent a person.

I have not read Stephens's book on Central America, but only certain extracts from it in the
last Quarterly, with which I was particularly charmed; but I admire your asking me why I did
not send for his book from the circulating library instead of Paul de Kock. Do you suppose
I sent for Paul de Kock? Don't you know I never send for any book, and never read any book,
but such as I am desired, required, lent, or given to read by somebody? being, for the most
part, very indifferent what I read, and having the obliging faculty of forgetting immediately
what I have read, which is an additional reason for my not caring much what my books are. Still,
there is a point at which my indifference will give way to disgust.... ---- recommended Paul
de Kock's books strongly to me, therefore I read one of them, but found it so very little to
my taste that I was obliged, against my usual rule of compliance with my friend's recommendations
in these matters, to decline the rest of the author's works. I have begun your "Enfant du Peuple,"
and many are the heartaches I have had already, though I have read but little of it, over that
poor Jean Baptiste's tender and touching love, which reminds one of Jacob's serving seven years
for the sake of Rachel, and hardly counting them a day....

Dearest Harriet, if in the matter of your visit to us you cannot alter your plans, which have
already been turned topsy-turvy once to suit ours, we will go at some other time to Belvoir,
and my sister must e'en give it up, as in my professional days I had to forego Stoke, Chatsworth,
and, hardest by far of all, Abbotsford.

God bless you, dearest Harriet. Give my kind love to M----. I rejoice to hear of her convalescence.
Remember me affectionately to Dorothy, and believe me,

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          GRIMSTHORPE, March 27th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Thank God and O'Connell for your smooth passage. I really dreaded the effects of sea-sickness
for you, combined with that racking cough....

We left Belvoir yesterday, and came on here, having promised Lady Willoughby to visit them
on our way back to London.

I do not know whether you ever saw Belvoir.

The interior of the house is handsome, and in good taste; and the whole mode of life stately
and splendid, as well as extremely pleasant and comfortable. The people--I mean the Duke and
his family--kind and courteous hosts, and the society very easy and free from stiffness or
constraint of any sort; and I have enjoyed my visit very much....

We had a large party at Belvoir. The gentlemen of the hunt were all at the castle; and besides
the ladies of the family (one unmarried and two married daughters), we had the Duchess of Richmond
and her granddaughter, the Duke and Duchess of Bedford, Lord and Lady Winchelsea, Mademoiselle
d'Este, and a whole tribe of others whose names I forget, but which are all duly down in the
butler's book.

Every morning the duke's band marched round the castle, playing all sorts of sprightly music,
to summon us to breakfast, and we had the same agreeable warning that dinner was ready. As
soon as the dessert was placed on the table, singers came in, and performed four pieces of
music; two by a very sweet single voice, and two by three or more voices. This, with intervals
for conversation, filled up the allotted time before the ladies left the table. In the evening
we had music, of course, and one evening we adjourned to the ball-room, where we danced all
night, the duke leading down a country-dance, in which his house-maids and men-cooks were vigorously
figuring at the same time.

Whenever my sister sang, the servants used all to assemble on a large staircase at one end
of the ball-room, where, for the sake of the sound, the piano was placed, and appeared among
her most enthusiastic hearers.... The whole family were extremely cordial and kind to us; and
when we drove away, they all assembled at an upper window, waving hats and handkerchiefs as
long as we could see them. I have no room to tell you anything of Grimsthorpe. God bless you.
Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                Fanny.

    [My first introduction to "afternoon tea" took place during this
    visit to Belvoir, when I received on several occasions private and
    rather mysterious invitations to the Duchess of Bedford's room, and
    found her with a "small and select" circle of female guests of the
    castle, busily employed in brewing and drinking tea, with her
    grace's own private tea-kettle. I do not believe that now
    universally honored and observed institution of "five-o'clock tea"
    dates farther back in the annals of English civilization than this
    very private and, I think, rather shamefaced practice of it.

    Our visit to Grimsthorpe has left but three distinct images on my
    memory: that of my bedroom, with its furniture of green velvet and
    regal bed-hangings of white satin and point lace; that of the
    collection of thrones in the dining-room, the Lords Willoughby de
    Eresby being hereditary Lord Grand Chamberlains of England, whose
    perquisite of office was the throne or chair of state used by each
    sovereign at his or her coronation; and my intercourse with
    Mademoiselle d'Este, who, like ourselves, came from Belvoir to
    Grimsthorpe, and with whom I here began an acquaintance that grew
    into intimacy, and interested me a good deal from her peculiar
    character and circumstances.]

                                HARLEY STREET, London, March 31st, 1842.
  MY DEAR T----,

... My father is in wonderful health, looks, and spirits, considering that in all these items
this time last year he was very little better than dead. My sister is working very hard and
very successfully, and proposing to herself, after two more years of assiduous labor, to retire
on a moderate income to Italy, where she would rather live than anywhere else. But, oh dear
me! how well I remember the day when that was my own vision of the future, and only see what
a very different thing it has turned out! I think it not at all improbable that she will visit
the United States next year, and that we shall find that moment propitious for returning; that
is to say, about a twelvemonth from next month.... So much for private interests. As to the
public ones: alas! Sir Robert Peel is losing both his health and his temper, they say; and
no wonder at it! His modification of the corn laws and new tariff are abominations to his own
party, and his income tax an abomination to the nation at large. I cannot conceive a more detestable
position than his, except, perhaps indeed, that of the country itself just now. Poverty and
discontent in great masses of the people; a pitiless Opposition, snapping up and worrying to
pieces every measure proposed by the Ministry, merely for malignant mischeevousness, as the
nursemaids say, for I don't believe they--the Whigs--will be trusted again by the people for
at least a century to come; a determined, troublesome, and increasing Radical party, whose
private and personal views are fairly and dangerously masked by the public grievances of which
they advocate the redress; a minister, hated personally by his own party, with hardly an individual
of his own political persuasion in either House who follows him cordially, or, rather, who
does not feel himself personally aggrieved by one or other of the measures of reform he has
proposed,--yet that minister the only man in England at this moment able to stand up at the
head of public affairs, and the defeat of whose measures (distasteful as they are to his own
party, and little satisfactory to the people in general) would produce instantaneously, I believe,
such confusion, disorder, and dismay as England has not seen for many a year, not indeed since
the last great Reform crisis;--all this is not pleasant, and makes me pity everybody connected
with the present Government, and Sir Robert Peel more than anybody else. I wonder how long
he'll be able to stand it.

What have you done with Lord Morpeth? And what are you doing with "Boz"? The first has a most
tenderly attached mother and sisters, and really should not, on their account, be killed with
kindness; and the latter has several small children, I believe, who, I suppose, will naturally
desire that your national admiration should not annihilate their papa.... I wish we were to
come back to America soon, but wishes are nonsensical things.... Give my dear love to Catherine
and Kate [Miss Sedgwick and her niece], if they are in New York when this reaches you.

Good-bye, my dear T----. I would not have troubled you with this if I had known Mrs. Robert's
address; but "Wall Street" will find you, though "Warren Street" knows her no longer.

We have been spending ten days at Belvoir Castle, with all sorts of dukes and duchesses. Don't
you perceive it in the nobility of my style? It is well for a foreigner to see these things;
they are pretty, pleasant, gay, grand, and, in some of their aspects, good; but I think that
who would see them even as they still subsist now had better lose no time about it.

                               HARLEY STREET, Tuesday, April 12th, 1842.

Did anyone ever say there was not a "soul of good even in things evil"? From your mode of replying
to my first letter, dearest Harriet--the one from Belvoir, in which I told you I had been strongly
minded to write to you first--you do not seem to me quite to believe in the existence of such
an intention. Nor was it a "weak thought," but a very decided purpose, which was frustrated
by circumstances for one day, and the next prevented entirely by the arrival of your letter.
However, no matter for all that now; hear other things.

You ask after "Figaro" [Mozart's opera of "Le Nozze di Figaro," then being given at Covent
Garden, my sister singing the part of Susanna]. It draws very fine houses, and Adelaide's acting
in it is very much liked and praised, as it highly deserves to be, for it is capital, very
funny, and fine in its fun, which makes good comedy--a charming thing, and a vastly more difficult
one, in my opinion, than any tragic acting whatever....

Your boots have been sent safe and sound, my dear, and are in the custody of a person who,
I verily believe, thinks me incapable of taking care of anything in the world, and has the
same amount of confidence in my understanding that a friend of mine (a clergyman of the Church
of England) expressed in his mother's honesty, "I wouldn't trust her with a bad sixpence round
the corner." However, your boots, as I said, are safe, and will reach your hands (or feet,
I should rather say) in due course of time, I have no doubt.

I have had two letters from America lately, the last of them containing much news about the
movements of the abolitionists, in which its writer takes great interest. Among other things,
she mentions that an address had been published to the slaves, by Gerrit Smith, exhorting them
to run away, to use all means to do so, to do so at any risk, and also by all means and at
any risk to learn to read. By all means, he advises them, in no case to use violence, or carry
off property of their masters' (except indeed themselves, whom their masters account very valuable
property). I should have told you that Gerrit Smith himself was a large slave-holder, that
he has given up all his property, renounced his home in the South (where, indeed, if he was
to venture to set foot, he would be murdered in less than an hour). He lives at the North,
in comparative poverty and privation, having given up his wealth for conscience' sake. I saw
him once at Lucretia Mott's. He was a man of remarkable appearance, with an extremely sweet
and noble countenance. He is one of the "confessors" in the martyr-age of America.

I am much concerned at your account of E----, for though sprains and twists and wrenches are
not uncommon accidents, I have always much more dread of them than of a bonâ (bony) fide fracture.
I always fear some injury may be lodged in the system by such apparently lesser casualties,
that may not reveal itself till long after the real cause is forgotten....

I must end this letter, for I have delayed it too shamefully long, and you must think me more
abominable than ever, in spite of which I am still

                              Your most affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       CRANFORD HOUSE, April 17th, 1842.

I put a letter into the post for you, my dearest Harriet, this afternoon. This is all I was
able to write to you yesterday--Wednesday; and now it is Thursday evening, and there is every
prospect of my having leisure to finish my letter.

Emily has asked me several times to come and spend the evening with her mother, and I have
promised her each time that the first evening....

Thus far last night, my dear--that is to say, Thursday evening. It is now Friday evening, and
the long and the short of the story was that Emily dined out, Mrs. FitzHugh teaed with the
Miss Hamiltons, my party went to Drury Lane, and I passed the evening alone; and the reason
why this letter was not finished during that lonely evening, my dear, was that I was sitting
working worsted-work for Emily in the parlor downstairs when my people all went away, and after
they were gone I was seized with a perfect nervous panic, a "Good" fever, and could not bring
myself to stir from the chair where they had left me. As to going up into the drawing-room,
it was out of the question; I fancied every step of the stairs would have morsels of flesh
lying on it, and the banisters would be all smeared with blood and hairs. In short, I had a
fit of the horrors, and sat the whole blessed evening working heart's ease into Emily's canvas,
in a perfect nightmare of horrible fancies. At one moment I had the greatest mind in the world
to send for a cab, and go to Covent Garden Theatre, and sit in Adelaide's dressing-room; but
I was ashamed to give way to my nerves in that cowardly fashion, and certainly passed a most
miserable evening.... However, let me leave last night and its horrors, and make haste to answer
your questions....

Another pause, dear Harriet, and here I am at this picturesque old place, Cranford House, paying
another visit to ----'s venerable friend, old Lady Berkeley. I have been taking a long walk
this morning with Lady ----, whose London fine-ladyism gave way completely in these old walks
of her early home, to which all the family appear extremely attached. Her unfeigned delight
at the primroses, oxlips, wild cherry bloom, and varying greens of the spring season made me
think that her lament was not applicable to herself, just then, at any rate. "What a pity,"
cried she, "it is that one cannot be regenerated as the earth is every spring!" She seemed
to me to be undergoing a very pretty process of regeneration even while she spoke. It is touching
to observe natural character and the lingering traces of early impressions surviving under
the overlaying of the artificial soil and growth of after years of society and conventional
worldly habits. She pointed out to me a picturesque, pretty object in the grounds, over which
she moralized with a good deal of enthusiasm and feeling--an old, old fir-tree, one of the
cedar tribe, a tree certainly many more than a hundred years old, whose drooping lower branches
absolutely lie upon the lawn for yards all round it. One of these boughs has struck into the
ground, and grown up into a beautiful young tree, already twelve or fourteen feet high, and
the contrast between the vivid coloring and erect foliage of this young thing, and the rusty,
dusky green, drooping branches of the enormous tree, which seems to hang over and all round
it, with parental tenderness, is quite exquisite. One of them, however, must, nevertheless,
destroy or be destroyed by the other; a very pretty vegetable version of the ancient classical,
family fate, superstitions....

Pray, if you know how flowers propagate, write me word. In gathering primroses this morning,
Lady ---- and I exercised our ignorance in all sorts of conjectures upon the subject, neither
of us being botanists, though she knew, which I did not, the male from the female flowers.

I get a good deal of sleep since you have gone away, as I certainly do not sit up talking half
the night with anybody else. But as for enough, is there such a thing as enough sleep? and
was anybody ever known to have had it? and who was he or she?

I have had two long letters from Elizabeth Sedgwick, containing much matter about the abolitionists,
in whose movements, you know, she is deeply interested; also more urgent entreaties that I
will "use my influence" to secure our return home in the autumn!...

My father appears to be quite well, and in a state of great pleasurable excitement and activity
of mind, having (alas! I regret to say) accepted once more the management of Covent Garden,
which is too long a story to begin just at the end of my paper; but he is in the theatre from
morning till night, as happy as the gods, and apparently, just now, as free from all mortal
infirmity. It is amazing, to be sure, what the revival of the one interest of his life has
done for his health.

I went to the Portland Street Chapel last Sunday, and heard a sermon upon my peculiar virtue,
humility, not from the same clergyman we heard together; and S----, who is too funny, sang
the Psalms so loud that I had to remonstrate with her.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [A horrible murder had just been committed by a miserable man of the
    name of Good, who endeavored to conceal his crime by cutting to
    pieces and scattering in different directions the mangled remains of
    his victim--a woman. The details of these horrors filled the public
    papers, and were the incessant subject of discussion in society, and
    were calculated to produce an impression of terror difficult to
    shake off even by so little nervous a person as myself.

    The Countess of Berkeley, to whom I have alluded in this letter, was
    a woman whose story was a singular romance, which now may be said to
    belong to "ancient history." She was the daughter of a butcher of
    Gloucester, and an extremely beautiful person. Mr. Henry Berkeley,
    the fifth son of Lady Berkeley, for many years Member of Parliament
    for Bristol, and as many years the persistent advocate of the system
    of voting by ballot, travelled and resided for some time in America,
    and formed a close intimacy with ----, who, when we came to England,
    accepted Mr. Berkeley's invitation to visit his mother at Cranford,
    and took me with him, to make the acquaintance of this remarkable
    old lady. She was near eighty years old, tall and stately, with no
    apparent infirmities, and great remains of beauty. There was great
    originality in all she said, and her manner was strikingly energetic
    for so old a woman. I remember, one day after dinner, she had her
    glass filled with claret till the liquid appeared to form a rim
    above the vessel that contained it, and, raising it steadily to her
    lips, looked round the table, where sat all her children but Lord
    Fitzhardinge, and saying, "God bless you all," she drank off the
    contents without spilling a drop, and, replacing the glass on the
    table, said, "Not one of my sons could do that."

    One morning, when I was rather indisposed, and unable to join any of
    the parties into which the guests had divided themselves on their
    various quests after amusement, I was left alone with Lady Berkeley,
    and she undertook to give me a sketch of her whole history; and very
    strange it was. She gave me, of course, her own version of the
    marriage story, and I could not but wonder whether she might have
    persuaded herself into believing it true, when she wound up her
    curious and interesting account of her life by saying, "And now I am
    ready to be carried to my place in the vault, and my place in the
    vault is ready for me" (she pointed to the church which adjoined the
    old mansion); "and I have the key of it here," and she gave a hearty
    slap upon her pocket. She told me of her presentation at Court, and
    the uproar it occasioned among the great ladies there, whose
    repugnance to admit her of their number she described with much
    humor, but attributed solely to the fact of her plebeian descent, of
    which she spoke unhesitatingly.

    The impression I gathered from her narrative, rather unconsciously
    on her part I suspect, was that the Queen, whose strictness upon the
    subject of reputation was well known, objected to receiving her
    (Lady Berkeley called her, rather disrespectfully, "Old Charlotte"
    all the time, but spoke of George III. as "the King"), but was
    overruled by the King, who had a personal friendship for Lord
    Berkeley.

    The strangest thing in her whole account of herself, however, was
    the details she gave me of her singular power over her husband. She
    said that in a very few years after their marriage (by courtesy) she
    perceived that her husband's affairs were in the most deplorable
    state of derangement: that he gambled, that he was over head and
    ears in debt, that he never had a farthing of ready money, that his
    tenantry were worse off than any other in the country, that his
    agents and bailiffs and stewards were rogues who ground them and
    cheated him, that his farmers were careless and incompetent, and
    that the whole of his noble estate appeared to be going
    irretrievably to ruin; when the earl complaining one day bitterly of
    this state of things, for which he knew no remedy, she told him that
    she would find the remedy, and undertake to recover what was lost
    and redeem what remained, if he would give her absolute
    discretionary power to deal with his property as she pleased, and
    not interfere with her management of it for a whole year. He agreed
    to this, but, not satisfied with his promise, she made him bind
    himself by oath and, moreover, execute documents, giving her legal
    power enabling her to act independently of him in all matters
    relating to his estate. The earl not unnaturally demurred, but at
    length yielded, only stipulating that she should always be prepared
    to furnish him with money whenever he wanted it. She bound herself
    to do this, and received regular powers from him for the
    uninterrupted management of his property and administration of his
    affairs for a whole year. She immediately set about her various
    plans of reform, and carried them on vigorously and successfully,
    without the slightest interference on the part of her dissipated and
    careless husband, who had entirely forgotten the whole compact
    between them. Some months after the agreement had gone into effect,
    she perceived that he was harassed and disturbed about something,
    and questioning him, found he had incurred a heavy gambling debt,
    which he knew not how to meet. His surprise was extreme when,
    recalling the terms of their mutual agreement, she put him in
    possession of the sum he required. "He called me an angel," she
    said. "You see, my dear, one is always an angel, when one holds the
    strings of the purse, and that there is money in it."

    She persevered in her twelvemonth's stewardship, and at the end of
    that time had redeemed her word, and relieved her husband's estate
    from its most pressing embarrassments. The value of the land had
    increased; the condition of the tenantry had improved; intelligent
    and active farmers had had the farms rented to them, instead of the
    previous sleepy set of incumbents; and finally, a competent and
    honest agent, devoted to carry out her views, was placed over the
    whole. The property never fell from this highly prosperous
    condition, for Lord Berkeley never withdrew it from his wife's
    supervision; and she continued to administer his affairs till his
    death, and maintained an extraordinary influence over all the
    members of her family at the time of my acquaintance with her. They
    were all rather singular persons, and had a vein of originality
    which made them unlike the people one met in common society. I
    suppose their mother's unusual character may have had to do with
    this.

    Lord Fitzhardinge was never at Cranford when I was there, though I
    have, at various times, met all the other brothers.

    Frederick Berkeley went into the navy, and rose to the important
    position of an admiral; Craven Berkeley, Grantley Berkeley, and
    Henry Berkeley were all in Parliament. The latter was for many
    years Member for the important constituency of Bristol, and,
    probably in consequence of opinions acquired during his residence in
    the United States, was a consistent advocate for the introduction of
    vote by ballot in our elections. This gentleman was an unusually
    accomplished person: he had made preparatory studies for two
    professions, the Church and the Bar; but though he embraced neither
    career (possibly on account of an accident he met with while
    hunting, which crippled him for life), the reading he had gone
    through for both had necessarily endowed him with a more than common
    degree of mental cultivation. He was an excellent musician, played
    on the piano and organ with considerable taste and feeling, and had
    a much more thorough acquaintance with the science of music than is
    usual in an amateur.

    Morton Berkeley sought no career; he lived with his mother and
    sister, Lady Mary, at Cranford, his principal pleasure and
    occupation being the preservation of the game on the estate--an
    object of not very easy accomplishment, owing to the proximity of
    Cranford to London, the distance being only twelve miles by
    railroad, and the facilities thus offered of escape and impunity to
    poachers necessarily considerable. The tract immediately round
    Cranford was formerly part of the famous, or rather infamous,
    Hounslow Heath; and I have heard Mr. Henry Berkeley say that in his
    youth he remembered perfectly, when he went to London with his
    father, by day or night, loaded pistols were an invariable part of
    the carriage furniture.

    My first acquaintance with Mr. Morton Berkeley's devotion to the
    duties of a gamekeeper was made in a very singular manner, and
    accompanied by a revelation of an unexpected piece of sentiment.

    ---- and myself were visiting at Cranford on one occasion, when the
    only strangers there beside ourselves were Lady C----, Lord and Lady
    S----, and Lord F---- and his sister, a lady of some pretensions to
    beauty, but still more to a certain fashionable elegance of
    appearance, much enhanced by her very Parisian elaborateness of
    toilette.

    One night, when the usual hour for retiring had come, the ladies,
    who always preceded the gentlemen by some hours to their sleeping
    apartments, had left the large room on the ground-floor, where we
    had been spending the evening. As we ascended the stairs, my
    attention was attracted by some articles of dress which lay on one
    of the window-seats: a heavy, broad-brimmed hat, a large rough
    pea-jacket, and a black leather belt and cutlass--a sort of
    coastguard costume which, lying in that place, excited my curiosity.
    I stopped to examine them, and Lady Mary exclaiming, "Oh, those are
    Morton's night-clothes; he puts them on when everybody is gone to
    bed, to go and patrol with the gamekeeper round the place. Do put
    them on for fun;" she seized them up and began accoutring me in
    them.

    When I was duly enveloped in these very peculiar trappings, we all
    burst into fits of laughter, and it was instantly proposed that we
    should all return to the drawing-room, I marching at their head in
    my gamekeeper's costume. Without further consideration, I ran
    downstairs again, followed by the ladies, and so re-entered the
    room, where the gentlemen were still assembled in common council,
    and where our almost immediate return in this fashion was hailed by
    a universal shout of surprise and laughter. After standing for a
    minute, with a huge rough overcoat over my rose-colored satin and
    moiré skirts, which made a most ludicrous termination to the
    pugnacious habit of my upper woman, I plunged my hand into one of
    the pockets, and drew forth a pair of hand-cuffs (a prudent
    provision in case of an encounter with poachers). Encouraged by the
    peals of merriment with which this discovery was greeted, I thrust
    my other hand into the other pocket, when Mr. Morton Berkeley,
    without uttering a word, rushed at me, and, seizing me by the wrist,
    prevented my accomplishing my purpose. The suddenness of this
    movement frightened me at first a good deal. Presently, however, my
    emotion changed, and I felt nothing but amazement at being thus
    unceremoniously seized hold of, and rage at finding that I could not
    extricate myself from the grasp that held me. Like a coward and a
    woman, I appealed to all the other gentlemen, but they were laughing
    so excessively that they were quite unable to help me, and probably
    anticipated no great mischief from Mr. Berkeley's proceeding. I was
    almost crying with mortification, and actually drew the cutlass and
    threatened to cut the fingers that encircled my wrist like one of
    the iron handcuffs, but, finding my captor inexorable, I was
    obliged, with extreme sulky confusion, to beg to be let go, and
    promise to take the coat off without any further attempts to search
    the pockets. I divested myself of my borrowed apparel a great deal
    faster than I had put it on, and its owner walked off with the
    pea-jacket, the right pocket of which remained unexplored. We ladies
    withdrew again, rather crestfallen at the termination of our joke, I
    rubbing my wrist like Mary Stuart after her encounter with Lord
    Ruthven, and wondering extremely what could be the mysterious
    contents of that pocket.

    The next day Lady Mary told me that her brother had long cherished a
    romantic sort of idolatry for Miss F----, and that, as a pendant to
    the handcuffs in one pocket of his dreadnought, the other contained
    her miniature, which he dreaded the night before that my
    indiscretion would produce, to the derision of the men, the distress
    and confusion of the young lady herself, and the possible
    displeasure of her brother. Mr. Morton Berkeley's manners to me
    after that were again, as they always had been, respectful and
    rather reserved; the subject of our "fight" was never again alluded
    to, and he remained to me a gentle, shy, courteous (and romantic)
    gentleman.

    He was habitually silent, but when he did speak, he was very apt to
    say something apposite, and generally containing the pith of the
    matter under discussion. I remember once, when I was reproaching his
    brother Henry and his sister with what I thought the unbecoming
    manner in which they criticised the deportment and delivery of a
    clergyman whose sermon they had just listened to (and who certainly
    was rather an unfortunate specimen of outward divinity), Mr. Morton
    Berkeley suddenly turned to me, and said, "Why, Mrs. Butler, he is
    only the rusty bars the light shines through"--a quotation, in fact,
    but a very apposite one, and I am not sure but that it was an
    unconscious one, and an original illustration on his part.

    Mr. Thomas Duncombe, the notorious Radical Member for Finsbury, very
    generally and very disrespectfully designated in the London society
    of his day as "Tommy Duncombe," and Mr. Maxse (Lady Caroline
    Berkeley's husband), were also among the persons with whom I became
    acquainted at Cranford.

    Of a curious feat of charioteership performed by the latter
    gentleman I was told once by the Duke of Beaufort, who said he had
    derived from it the nickname of "Go-along Maxse." Driving late one
    night with a friend on a turnpike road after the gates were closed,
    he said to his companion, "Now, if the turnpike we are just coming
    to is shut, I'll take the horse and gig over the gate." The gig was
    light, the horse powerful and swift. As they bowled along and came
    in sight of the gate, they perceived that it was closed; when Mr.
    Maxse's companion calling out to him, "Go-along, Maxse," that
    gentleman fulfilled his threat or promise, whichever it might be,
    and put his horse full at the gate, which the gallant creature
    cleared, bringing the carriage and its live freight safe to the
    ground on the other side; a feat which I very unintentionally
    imitated, in a humble degree, many years after, with an impunity my
    carelessness certainly did not deserve.

    Driving in a state of considerable mental preoccupation out of my
    own gate one day at Lenox, in a very light one-horse "wagon" (as
    such vehicles are there called), instead of turning my horse's head
    either up or down the road, I let him go straight across it, to the
    edge of a tolerably wide dry ditch, when, suddenly checking him, the
    horse, who was a saddle-horse and a good leaper, drew himself
    together, and took the ditch, with me in the carriage behind him,
    and brought up against a fence, where there was just room for him to
    turn round, which he immediately did, as if aware of his mistake,
    and proceeded to leap back again, quite successfully without any
    assistance of mine, I being too much amazed at the whole performance
    to do anything but sit still and admire my horse's dexterity.

    I have adverted to the still existing industry of "gentlemen of the
    road," in speaking of Cranford in the days of the Earl of Berkeley,
    who used to take pistols in the carriage when he went to London. On
    one occasion, when he was riding, unattended but fortunately not
    unarmed, over some part of Hounslow Heath, a highwayman rode up to
    him, and, saluting him by name, said, "I know, my lord, you have
    sworn never to give in to one of us; but now I mean to try if you're
    as good as your word." "So I have, you rascal, but there are two of
    you here," replied the earl. The robber, thrown off his guard,
    looked round for the companion thus indicated, and Lord Berkeley
    instantly shot him through the head; owing it to his ready presence
    of mind that he escaped a similar fate at the hands of his
    assailant.

    My mother, I think, had the advantage of a slight personal
    acquaintance with one of the very last of these Tyburn heroes. She
    lived at one time, before her marriage, with her mother and sisters
    and only brother, at a small country house beyond Finchley; to which
    suburban, or indeed then almost entirely rural, retreat my father
    and other young men of her acquaintance used occasionally to resort
    for an afternoon's sport, in the present highly distinguished
    diversion of pigeon-shooting. On one of these occasions some one of
    her habitual guests brought with him a friend, who was presented to
    my mother, and joined in the exercise of skill. He was like a
    gentleman in his appearance and manners, with no special peculiarity
    but remarkably white and handsome hands and extraordinary dexterity,
    or luck, in pigeon-shooting. Captain Clayton was this individual's
    name, and his visit, never repeated to my mother's house, was
    remembered as rather an agreeable event. Soon after this several
    outrages were committed on the high-road which passed through
    Finchley; and Moody, the celebrated comic actor, who lived in that
    direction, was stopped one evening, as he was driving himself into
    town, by a mounted gentleman, who, addressing him politely by name,
    demanded his watch and purse, which Moody surrendered, under the
    influence of "the better part of valor." Having done so, however, he
    was obliged to request his "very genteel" thief to give him enough
    money to pay his turnpike on his way into town, where he was going
    to act, whereupon the "gentleman of the road" returned him
    half-a-crown, and bade him a polite "Good-evening." Some time after
    this, news was brought into Covent Garden, at rehearsal one morning,
    that a man arrested for highway robbery was at the Bow Street Police
    Office, immediately opposite the theatre. Several of the corps
    dramatique ran across the street to that famous vestibule of the
    Temple of Themis; among others, Mr. Moody and Vincent de Camp. The
    latter immediately recognized my mother's white-handed,
    gentleman-like pigeon-shooter, and Moody his obliging MacHeath of
    the Finchley Common highway. "Halloa! my fine fellow," said the
    actor to the thief, "is that you? Well, perhaps as you are here,
    you won't object to return me my watch, for which I have a
    particular value, and which won't be of any great use to you now, I
    suppose." "Lord love ye, Mr. Moody," replied Captain Clayton, with
    a pleasant smile, "I thought you were come to pay me the half crown
    I lent you."]

                                HARLEY STREET, Friday, April 22nd, 1842.
  MY DEAR T----,

I am not in the least indifferent to the advent of £100 sterling....

I am amused with your description of Dickens, because it tallies so completely with the first
impression he made upon me the only time I ever met him before he went to America.... I admire
and love the man exceedingly, for he has a deep warm heart, a noble sympathy with and respect
for human nature, and great intellectual gifts wherewith to make these fine moral ones fruitful
for the delight and consolation and improvement of his fellow-beings.

Lord Morpeth is indeed, as we say, another guessman, but quite one of the most amiable in this
world or that. He is universally beloved and respected, so tenderly cherished, by his own kindred
that his mother and sisters seem absolutely miserable with various anxieties about him, and
the weariness of his prolonged absence. He is a most worthy gentleman, and "goes nigh to be
thought so" by all classes here, I can tell you....

You ask me if I have any warmer friends in England than your people, who are certainly my warmest
friends in America. I have some friends in my own country who have known and loved me longer
than your family; but I do not think, with one or two exceptions, that they love me better,
nor do I reckon upon the faith and affection of my American friends less than upon that of
my English ones. But the number of people whom I entirely love and trust is very small anywhere,
and yet large enough to make me thank God every day for the share He has given me of worthy
friendships--treasures sufficient for me to account myself very rich in their possession; living
springs of goodness and affection, in which my spirit finds never-failing refreshment. But
I have in my own country a vast number of very kind and cordial acquaintances, and, to tell
you the truth, am better understood (naturally) and better liked in society, I think, here
than on your side of the water. I fancy I am more popular, upon the whole, among my own people
than among yours; which is not to be wondered at, as difference is almost always an element
of dislike, and, of course, I am more different from American than English people. Indeed,
I have come to consider the difference of nationality a broader, stronger, and deeper difference
than that produced by any mere dissimilarity of individual character. It is tantamount to looking
at everything from another point of view; to having, from birth and through education, other
standards; to having, in short, another intellectual and moral horizon. No personal unlikeness
between two individuals of the same nation, however strong it may be in certain points, is
equal to the entire unlikeness, fundamental, superficial, and thorough, of two people of different
nations.

I am anxious to close this letter before I go out, and shall only add, in replying to your
next question of whether I ever feel any desire to return to the stage, Never.... My very nature
seems to me dramatic. I cannot speak without gesticulating and making faces, any more than
an Italian can; I am fond, moreover, of the excitement of acting, personating interesting characters
in interesting situations, giving vivid expression to vivid emotion, realizing in my own person
noble and beautiful imaginary beings, and uttering the poetry of Shakespeare. But the stage
is not only this, but much more that is not this; and that much more is not only by no means
equally agreeable, but positively odious to me, and always was.

Good-by. God bless you and yours.

                              Believe me always yours most truly,
                                                           FANNY BUTLER.

                                           HARLEY STREET, May 1st, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I have just despatched a letter to Emily, from whom I I have had two already since she reached
Bannisters. She writes chiefly of her mother, whose efforts to bear her trial are very painful
to poor Emily, whose fewer years and excellent mental habits render such exertions easier to
her. To no one can self-control under such sorrow ever be easy. Wherefore, having no objection
whatever to go to Court (except, indeed, the expense of my dress, the idea of which caused
me no slight trepidation, as I had already exceeded my year's allowance), I referred the matter
to my supreme authority, and it being settled that I was to go, I ordered my tail, and my top,
train, and feathers, and went. And this is the whole story, with this postscript, that, not
owning a single diamond, I hired a handsome set for the occasion from Abud and Collingwood,
every single stone of which darted a sharp point of nervous anxiety into my brain and bosom
the whole time I wore them.

As you know that I would not go to the end of the street to see a drawing-room full of full
moons, you will easily believe that there was nothing particularly delightful to me in the
occasion. But after all, it was very little more of an exertion than I make five nights of
the week, in going to one place or another; and under the circumstances it was certainly fitting
and proper that I should go. He does not take the management of the German Opera, as was expected;
indeed, I wonder he ever accepted such an employment. I should think him most unfit to manage
such an undertaking, with his excitable temper and temperament. I do not know whether he will
come to London at all this season. Adelaide has been bitterly disappointed about it, and said
that she had reckoned upon him in great measure for the happiness of her whole summer....

You ask next in your category of questions after Adelaide's dog, and whether it is led in a
string successfully yet; and thereby hangs a tale. T'other morning she was awakened by a vehement
knocking at her door, and S---- exclaiming, in a loud and solemn voice, "Adelaide, thy maid
and thy dog are in a fit together!" which announcement she continued to repeat, with more and
more emphasis, till my sister, quite frightened, jumped out of bed, and came upon the stairs,
where she beheld the two women and children just come in from their walk; Anne, looking over
the banisters with her usual peculiar air of immovable dignity, slowly ejaculating, "What a
fool the girl is!" Caroline followed in her wake, wringing her hands, and alternately shrieking
and howling, like all the Despairs in the universe. It was long before anything could be distinguished
of articulate speech, among the fräulein's howls and shrieks; but at length it appeared that
she had taken "die Tine" out in the Regent's Park with Anne and the children, who now go out
directly after their breakfast. Tiny, it seems, enjoyed the trip amazingly, and became so excited
and so very much transported with what we call animal spirits in human beings that it began
to run, as the fräulein thought, away. Whereupon the fräulein began to run after it; whereupon
Tiny, when it heard this Dutch nymph heavy in hot pursuit, ran till it knocked its head against
a keeper's lodge, and here, because it shook and trembled and stared, probably at its own unwonted
performance, a sympathizing crowd collected, who instantly proclaimed it at first in a conwulsion
fit, and then decidedly mad. Water was offered it, which it only stared at and shook its head,
evidently dreading the cleansing element. A policeman coming by immediately proposed to kill
it. This, however, the fräulein objected to; and catching the bewildered quadruped in her arms,
she set off home, escorted by a running mob of sympathetic curiosity. But about half-way the
struggle between herself and "die Tine" became so terrific that it ended by the luckless little
brute escaping from her, and precipitating itself down an area, where it remained, invoking
heaven with howls, while Caroline ran howling down the street. The man-servant was then sent
(twice with a wrong direction) to fetch the poor little creature up, and bring it home. At
length Caroline accompanied the footman to the scene of the dog-astrophe (you wouldn't call
it cat-astrophe, would you?), and "die Tine" was safely lodged in the back-yard here, where,
being left alone and not bothered with human solicitude, it presently recovered as many small
wits as it ever had, drank voluntarily plenty of water, and gave satisfactory signs of being
quite as rational as any lady's little dog need be; but the fräulein protests she will never
take "die Tine" out walking again.

Good-bye dear. God bless you. I am pretty well, if that comports with low spirits and terrible
nervous irritability.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

My father desires his love to you.

                                   HARLEY STREET, Friday, May 6th, 1842.

I did ask Emily my botanical questions, but she could tell me no more than you have done, and
knew nothing special about the primroses.

You ask me a great deal in your letter about my father again taking the management of Covent
Garden, and on what terms he has done so; all which I have told you in the letter I have just
despatched to you....

Adelaide has repeatedly said that, as soon as she has realized three hundred a year, she will
give up the whole business; and I comfort myself with that purpose of hers; for if at the conclusion
of next season she will go to America for a year, she will more than realize the result she
proposes to herself.... I cannot, however, help fearing that obstacles may arise to prevent
her eventually fulfilling her purpose when the time comes for her retiring, according to her
present expectation and wish....

I have not been out a great deal lately, We seem a little less inclined to fly at all quarry
than last season; and as I never decide whether we shall accept the invitations that come or
not, I am very well pleased that some of them are declined. I believe I told you that Lady
Londonderry had asked us to a magnificent ball. This I was rather sorry to refuse, as a ball
is quite as great a treat to me as to any "young miss" just coming out. Indeed, I think my
capacity of enjoyment and excitement is greater than that of most "young misses" I see, who
not only talk of being bored, but actually contrive, poor creatures! to look so in the middle
of their first season.

I spent two hours with poor Lady Dacre yesterday evening.... After sitting with her, we went
to a large party at Sydney Smith's, where I was very much amused and pleased, and saw numbers
of people that I know and like--rather.

You ask about my walks.... They are now chiefly confined to my peregrinations in the Square,
measuring the enclosed gravel walks of which I have already, since your departure, finished
the "Mémoires de l'Enfant du Peuple," and brought myself, mirabile dictu! to within twenty
pages of the end of Mrs. Jameson's book upon Prussian school statistics....

I do not think Mr. W---- any authority upon any subject. I consider him a perfect specimen
of a charlatan, and his opinions with regard to slavery and the abolitionists are particularly
little worthy of credit in my mind, because he used America precisely as an actor would, to
make money wherever he could by his lectures, which he puffed himself, till he was absolutely
laughed at all over the country, and which were, by the accounts of those who heard them, perfectly
shallow and often quite erroneous as far as regarded the information they pretended to impart.
The Southern States were a lucrative field for his lecturing speculation; the Northern abolitionists
were far from being sufficiently numerous or influential for it to be worth his while to conciliate
them; and for these reasons I attach little value to his statement upon that or indeed any
other subject.

You ask me what was my impression altogether of the Drawing-room. I have told you about my
own performances there, of which, however, I dare say I exaggerated the awkwardness to myself.
The whole thing wearied me, just as any other large, overcrowded assembly where I could not
sit down would; and that is the chief impression it has left upon me. I believe I was flattered
by the Queen's expressing any curiosity about me, but I went simply because I was told it was
right that I should do so. I am always horribly shy, or nervous, or whatever that foolish sensation
ought to be called, at even having to walk across a room full of people; and therefore the
fuss and to-do and ceremonial of the presentation (particularly not having been very well drilled
beforehand by Lady Francis, who presented me) were disagreeable to me; but I have retained
no impression of the whole thing other than of a very large and fatiguing rout. We are advised
to go again on the birthday, but that I am sure we shall not do; and now that the Queen--God
bless her!--has perceived that I do not go upon all-fours, but am indeed, as Bottom says, "a
woman like any other woman," I have no doubt her gracious Majesty is abundantly satisfied with
what she saw of me.

Good-bye, dearest Harriet.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The enthusiastic abolitionist, Mrs. Lydia Child, had written to me,
    requesting me to give her for publication some portions of the
    journal I had kept during my residence in Georgia; and I had
    corresponded with my friend Mrs. Charles Sedgwick upon the subject,
    deciding to refuse her request. My Georgia journal never saw the
    light till the War of Secession was raging in America, and almost
    all the members of the society in which I was then living in England
    were strongly sympathizing with the Southern cause, when I thought
    it right to state what, according to my own observation and
    experience, that cause involved.]

                                           HARLEY STREET, May 6th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

The carriage is waiting to take ---- to the Levée, and I am waiting till it comes back to go
upon my thousand and one daily errands. Adelaide, it being her last day at home, appears anxious
to enjoy as much as she can of my society, and has therefore gone fast asleep in the arm-chair
by the table at which I am writing, and has expressed her intention of coming out and paying
visits with me this morning. She starts at eight o'clock this evening, and will reach Birmingham,
I believe, about one. This arrangement, which I should think detestable, pleases her very much....

Mr. Everett, our friend, presents ----, and I thought Anne would have fallen down in a fit
when she heard that the ceremony consisted in going down on one knee and kissing the Queen's
hand. She did not mind my doing it the least in the world, but her indignation has been unbounded
at the idea of a free-born American citizen submitting to such degradation. Poor thing! "Lucifer,
son of the morning," was meek and humble to her.

We dined to-day with the Francis Egertons, to meet the young Guardsmen who are to form our
corps dramatique for "The Hunchback," which, you know, we are going to act in private. To-morrow
evening we go to Sydney Smith's, and on Monday down to Oatlands for a few days. I am always
delighted in that place and the lovely wild country round it. Lady Francis will mount me, and
I expect my old enjoyment in riding about those beautiful and well-remembered haunts with her....

There has been a grand row at the Italian Opera-House, among the managers, singers, and singeresses.
Mario (Mons. Di Candia; I suppose you know who I mean) has, it seems, for some reason or other,
been discharged. Madame Grisi, who sympathizes with him, refuses to uplift her voice, that
being the case; the new singeress, Frezzolini, does not please at all; and the new singer,
Rouconi, isn't allowed by his wife to sing with any woman but herself, and she is a perfect
dose to the poor audience. Lumley, the solicitor, manager of these he and she divinities, declares
that if they don't behave better he'll shut the theatre at the end of the week. In the mean
time, underhand proposals have been made to Adelaide to stop the gap, and sing for a few nights
for them--a sort of proposal which does not suit her, which she has scornfully rejected, and
departed with her tail over her shoulder, leaving the behind scenes of Her Majesty's Theatre
with their tails between their legs....

My dearest Harriet, you ask me if I do not think the spirit of martyrdom is often alloyed with
self-esteem and wilfulness. God alone knows the measure in which human infirmity and human
virtue unite in inducing the sacrifice of life and all that life loves for a point of opinion.
I confess, for my own part, self-esteeming and wilful as I am, that to suffer bodily torture
for the sake of an abstract question of what one believes to be right is an effort of courage
so much above any that I am capable of that I do not feel as if I had a right to undervalue
it by the smallest doubt cast upon the merit of those who have shown themselves capable of
it. It may be that, without such admixture of imperfection as human nature's highest virtues
are still tinged with, the confessors of every good and noble cause would have left unfulfilled
their heroic task of witnessing to the truth by their death; but if indeed base alloy did mingle
with their great and conscientious sacrifice, let us hope that the pangs of physical torture,
the anguish of injustice and ignominy, and the rending asunder of all the ties of earthly affection,
may have been some expiation for the imperfection of their most perfect deed....

Will you, my dear, be so good as to remember what a hang-nail is like? or a grain of dust in
your eye? or a blister on your heel? or a corn on your toe? and then reflect what the word
"torture" implies, when it meant all that the most devilish cruelty could invent. Savonarola!
good gracious me! I would have canted and recanted, and called black white, and white black,
and confessed, and denied! Please don't think of it! God be praised, those days are over! Not
but what I edified Mr. Combe greatly once, when I was a girl, by declaring that if, by behaving
well under torture, I could have vexed my tormentors very much, and if I might have had plenty
of people to see how well I behaved, I thought I could have managed it; to which he replied,
"Oh, weel now, Fanny, ye've just got the very spirit of a martyr in you." See if that theory
of the matter answers your notion....

You ask me how I managed about diamonds to go to Court in. The value of the jewels was only
£700, but I am sure they gave me £7000 worth of misery; and if her Majesty had but known the
anguish I endured in showing my respect for her by false appearances, the very least she could
have done would have been to have bought the jewels and given them to me. Madame Dévy made
my Court dress, which was of such material as, you see, I can use when I play "The Hunchback"
at Lady Francis's. I am ruining myself, in spite of my best endeavors to be economical; but
if it is any comfort for you to know it, my conscience torments me horribly for it....

God bless you. Good-bye, dear.

                              Ever yours affectionately,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                 HARLEY STREET, Saturday, May 7th, 1842.

... What an immense long talk I am having with you this morning, my dear Hal! I do not believe
you are wearied, however; but you will surely wonder why I did not put all these letters under
one cover with the three sovereign heads on the one packet; and I am sure I don't know why
I have not. But it doesn't matter much my appearing a little more or a little less absurd to you.

You ask who I shall associate with while ---- and Adelaide are away.... I presume with my own
writing-table and the carriage cushions, just as I do now, just as I did before, and just as
I am likely to do hereafter....

It was not the presence of the Queen that affected my nerves at the Drawing-room, but my own
presence, i.e., as the French say, I was "très embarrassée de ma personne." The uncertainty
of what I was to do (for Lady Francis had been exceedingly succinct in her instructions), and
the certainty of a crowd of people staring all round me,--this, I think, and not the overpowering
sense of a royal human being before me, was what made me nervous. Were I to go again to a Drawing-room,
now that I know my lesson, I do not think I should suffer at all from any embarrassment. We
are not asked to the fancy ball at the Palace, I am told, because of our omission in not attending
at the Birthday Drawing-room, which, it seems, is a usual thing after a first presentation.
I should like to have seen it; it will be a fine sight. In the mean time, as many of our acquaintances
are going, we come in for a full share of the insanity which has taken possession of men's
and women's minds about velvets, satins, brocades, etc. You enter no room that is not literally
strewed with queer-looking prints of costumes; and before you can say, "How d'ye do?" you are
asked which looks best together, blue and green, or pink and yellow; for, indeed, their selections
are often as outrageous as these would be. I never conceived people could be so stupid at combining
ideas, even upon this least abstruse of subjects; and you would think, to hear these fine ladies
talk the inanity they do about their own clothes, now they are compelled to think about them
for themselves, that they have no natural perceptions of even color, form, or proportion. The
fact is that even their dressing-brains are turned over to their French milliners and lady's-maids.
I understand Lady A---- says she will make her dress alone (exclusive of jewels) cost £1000.

Some people say this sort of mad extravagance does good; I cannot think it. It surely matters
comparatively little that the insane luxury of the self-indulgent feeds the bodies of so many
hundred people if at the same time the mischievous example of their folly and extravagance
is demoralizing their hearts and minds and injuring a great many more.

Touching Lady A----, she gave the address of one of her milliners to Lady W----, who, complaining
to her of the exorbitant prices of this superlative faiseuse, and plaintively stating that
she had charged her fifty guineas for a simple morning dress, Lady A---- replied, "Ah, very
likely, I dare say; I don't know anything about cheap clothes."

I do not know where Adelaide is likely to lodge in Dublin, nor do I believe she knows herself;
but before this letter reaches you, you will have found out. I had almost a mind to ask her
to write to me, but then I knew both how she hates it and how little time she was likely to
have, so I forbore. She has left me with the pleasing expectation that any of these days her
eccentric musical friend Dessauer may walk in, to be by me received, lodged, entertained, comforted,
and consoled, in her absence (in which case, by-the-by, you know, I should associate with him
while she is away). From parts of his letters which she has read to me, I feel very much inclined
to like him, ... and I imagine I shall find him very amusing....

You ask about our getting up of "The Hunchback" at the Francis Egertons'. I forget whether
you knew that Horace Wilson [my kind friend and connection, the learned Oxford Professor of
Sanscrit, who to his many important acquirements and charming qualities added the accomplishments
of a capital musician and first-rate amateur actor] has been seriously indisposed, and so out
of health and spirits as to have declined the part of Master Walter, which he was to have taken
in it. This has been a great disappointment to me, for he would have done it admirably, and
as he is a person of whom I am very fond, it would have been agreeable to me to have had him
among us, and I should have particularly liked him for so important a coadjutor. He failing
us, however, Knowles himself has undertaken to play the part, and I shall be glad enough to
do it with him again. I have a great deal of compassionate admiration for poor Knowles, who,
with his undeniable dramatic genius, his bright fancy, and poetical imagination, will, I fear,
end his days either in a madhouse or a poorhouse. The characters beside Sir Thomas Clifford
and Modus (which you know are taken by Henry Greville and ----) are filled by a pack of young
Guardsmen, with whom I dined, in order to make acquaintance, at Lady Francis's t'other day.
Two of them, Captain Seymour and a son of Sir Francis Coles, are acquaintances of yours and
your people.

You ask how I am amusing myself. Why, just as usual, which is well enough. I am of too troubled
a nature ever to lack excitement, and have an advantage over most people in the diversion I
am able to draw from very small sources.

I went last night to the French play, to see a French actress called Déjazet make her first
appearance in London. The house was filled with our highest aristocracy, the stalls with women
of rank and character, and the performance was, I think, one of the most impudent that I ever
witnessed. Dr. Whewell [the celebrated Master of Trinity] and Mrs. Whewell were sitting near
us, and left the theatre in the middle of Déjazet's first piece--I suppose from sheer disgust.
She is a marvellous actress, and without exception the most brazen-faced woman I ever beheld,
and that is saying a great deal. Good-bye.

                              Ever your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                HARLEY STREET, Saturday, May 14th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

On my return from Oatlands yesterday, I found no fewer than four letters of yours, and this
morning I have received a fifth.... I am most thankful for all your details about Adelaide,
who, of course, will not have time to write to any of us herself.... Miss Rainsforth, her mother,
and their travelling manager, Mr. Callcott, are her whole party.... Miss Rainsforth is a quiet,
gentle, well-conducted, well-bred, amiable person; Mr. Callcott is a son of the composer, and
a nephew of our friend Sir Augustus, and has the refinement of mind and manners which one would
look for in any member of that family.... I am very sorry that Adelaide cannot see more of
you, and you of her....

You ask whether it is a blessing or a curse not to provide one's own means of subsistence.
I think it is a great blessing to be able and allowed to do so. But I dare say I am not a fair
judge of the question, for the feeling of independence and power consequent upon earning large
sums of money has very much destroyed my admiration for any other mode of support; and yet
certainly my pecuniary position now would seem to most people very far preferable to my former
one; but having earned money, and therefore most legitimately owned it, I never can conceive
that I have any right to the money of another person.... I cannot help sometimes regretting
that I did not reserve out of my former earnings at least such a yearly sum as would have covered
my personal expenses; and having these notions, which impair the comfort of being maintained,
I am sometimes sorry that I no longer possess my former convenient power of coining. I do not
think I should feel so uncomfortable about inheriting money, though I had not worked for it;
for, like any other free gift, I think I should consider that legitimately my own, just like
any other present that was made me....

"The Hunchback" is to be acted at the Francis Egertons', in London, though I do not very well
see how; for Bridgewater House is in process of rebuilding, and their present residence in
Belgrave Square, though large enough for all social purposes, is far from being well adapted
to theatrical ones; insomuch--or, rather, so little--that it is my opinion we shall be in each
other's arms, laps, and pockets throughout the whole performance, which will be inconvenient,
and in some of the situations slightly indecorous.

I have received this morning, my dear, your notice of the "Sonnambula," for which we are all
very grateful to you. Give my love to my sister. I expected her success as a matter of course,
and did not anticipate much annoyance to her from her present mode of life, ... because I have
known her derive extreme amusement and diversion from circumstances and associates that would
have been utterly distasteful to me. Her love and perception of the ridiculous is not only
positive enjoyment, but a protection from annoyance and a mitigation of disgust. My father
desires his love to you, and bids me thank you for your kindness in sending him the newspapers.
With regard to that last song in the "Amina," of which you speak as of a tour de force, it
is hardly so much so, in point of fact, as her execution of the whole part, which is too high
for her; and though she sings it admirably in spite of that, she cannot give it the power and
expression that she would if it lay more easily in her voice. This, however, is the case with
other music that she sings, and the consequence is that, though she has great execution, and
power, and sweetness, and finish in the use of her artificial voice, it wants the spontaneous
force in high music of a naturally high organ.

Pray, did you ever pity me as much as you do Adelaide in the exercise of her profession? You
certainly never expressed the same amount of compassion for my strolling destinies, nor did
I ever hear you lament in this kind over the fate of John Kemble and Mrs. Siddons, both of
whom had impertinences addressed to them by your Dublin gallery humorists. Pray, what is the
meaning of this want of feeling on your part for us others, or your excess of it for Adelaide?
Is it only singing histrions who appear to you objects of compassion? Good-bye, dearest Harriet.
I have to write to Emily, and to answer an American clergyman, a friend of mine, who has written
to me from Paris; and moreover, being rather in want of money, I am about to endeavor to make
practicable for the English stage a French piece called "Mademoiselle de Belle Isle," which,
with certain vicious elements, has some very striking and effective situations, and is, dramatically
speaking, one of the most cleverly constructed plays I have seen for a long while. Therefore,
farewell. If I could earn £200 now, I should be glad.

                                HARLEY STREET, Thursday, May 19th, 1842.

Thank you, my dearest Harriet, for your long account of Adelaide. She has written to my father,
which I was very glad of.... Of course, I have not expected to hear from her, but have been
delighted to get all your details. In her letter to my father, she says she gets on extremely
well with her companions, that they are gay and merry, and that her life with them is pleasant
and amuses her very much.

You do not ask me a single question about a single thing, and therefore I will just tell you
how matters in general go on with me. In the first place, I heard yesterday that we are definitely
to return to America in August. Some attempt was made to renew our lease of this house for
a few months; but difficulties have arisen about it, and we shall probably return to the United
States as soon as possible after our lease expires. I do not yet feel at all sure of the fulfilment
of this intention, however; but at any rate it is one point of apparent decision indicated....

My feelings and thoughts about the return are far too numerous and various to be contained
in a letter. One thing I think--I feel sure of--that it is right, and therefore I am glad we
are to do it. My father, to whom this intention has not yet been mentioned, is looking wonderfully
well, and appears to be enjoying his mode of life extremely. He spends his days at Covent Garden,
and finds even now, when the German company are carrying on their operations there, enough
to do to keep him interested and incessantly busy within those charmed and charming precincts.
I am pretty well, though not in very good spirits; my life is much more quiet and regular than
when you were here, and I enjoy a considerable portion of retiracy.

I have taken possession of Adelaide's little sitting-room, and inhabit it all day, and very
often till tea-time in the evening. Owing to our day no longer being cut to pieces by our three-o'clock
dinner (on account of Adelaide), I do not run into arrears with my visits, and generally, after
discharging one or two recent debts of that sort, am able to get an hour's walk in Kensington
Gardens, and come home between four and five o'clock.

We have not been out a great deal lately; we have taken, I am happy to say, to discriminating
a little among our invitations, and no longer accept everything that offers.

I spent three delightful days at Oatlands, which is charming to me from its own beauty and
the association of the pleasure which I enjoyed there in past years. The hawthorn was just
coming into blossom, the wild heaths and moors and commons were one sheet of deep golden gorse
and pale golden broom, and nothing could be lovelier than the whole aspect of the country.

The day before yesterday I dined tête-à-tête with Mademoiselle d'Este, for whom I have taken
rather a fancy, and who appears to have done the same by me. Her position is a peculiar and
trying one, combined with her character, which has some striking and interesting elements.
She is no longer young, but has still much personal beauty, and that of an order not common
in England: very dark eyes, hair, and complexion, with a freedom and liveliness of manner and
play of countenance quite unusual in Englishwomen.... She lives a great deal alone, and reads
a great deal, and thinks a little, and I feel interested in her. She has sacrificed the whole
comfort and, it appears to me, much of the possible happiness of her life to her notion of
being a princess, which, poor thing! she is not; and as she will not be satisfied with, or
even accept, the position of a private gentlewoman, she is perpetually obliged to devise means
of avoiding situations, which are perpetually recurring, in which her real rank, or rather
no rank, is painfully brought home to her. This unfortunate pretension to princess-ship has
probably interfered vitally with her happiness, in preventing her marrying, as she considers,
below her birth [i.e. royally]; and as she is a very attractive woman, and, I should judge,
a person of strong feelings and a warm, passionate nature, this must have been a considerable
sacrifice; though in marrying, to be sure, she might only have realized another form of disappointment.

Yesterday we went to a fine dinner at Lord F----'s. He and his sisters are good-natured young
people of large fortune, whose acquaintance we made at Cranford, and who are very civil and
amiable in their demonstrations of good-will towards us. A son of the Duke of Leinster was
at this dinner, and invited ---- to go with him this morning and see Prince Albert review the
Guards; which he has accordingly done.

To-night we go to Sydney Smith's, which I always enjoy exceedingly; and for next week, I am
happy to say, we have at present no engagements but a dinner at the Francis Egertons', and
another evening at Sydney Smith's....

I believe I have now told you pretty much all I have to tell. I am working at a translation
of a French piece called "Mademoiselle de Belle Isle," by which I hope to make a little money,
with which I should be very glad to pay Mademoiselle Dévy's bill for my spring finery.

I went to Covent Garden the other day, to see if I could find anything in the theatre wardrobe
that I could make use of for "The Hunchback," and did find something; and, moreover, I think
Adelaide will be able to get her dress for Helen from there, though it seemed rather a doleful
daylight collection of frippery. My first dress I can make one of my own white muslin ones
serve for, my last I shall get beautifully out of my Court costume; so that the three will
only cost me the price of altering them for the private theatrical occasion.

We met at Oatlands Mrs. G----, the mother of the Member for Dublin, who has been preparing
herself, by a twelve years' residence on the Continent, for a plunge into savagedom, by a return
to her home in Connemara; and it was both comical and sad to hear her first launch out upon
the merits of the dear "wild Irish," and her desire to be among and serviceable to "her people,"
and then, all in the same breath, declare that the mere atmosphere of England and English society
was enough to kill any one with "the blue devils" who had ever been abroad; and this, mind
you, is the impression British existence makes upon her in the full height of the gay London
season. Fancy what she will find Connemara! She knows you and your people, and gave me a most
ardent invitation to the savage Ireland where she lives. Poor woman! I pity her; her case is
not absolutely unknown to me, or quite without parallel in my own experience.

Good-bye. God bless you.

                              Your affectionate
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                          HARLEY STREET.

This letter has been begun a week; it is now Saturday, May 28th, 1842.

  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

Pray give my love to Mrs. Kemble, and tell her that the Queen Dowager sent for me to go and
pay her a visit yesterday. For goodness' sake, Harriet, don't misunderstand me, I am only in
joke! I live among such very matter-of-fact persons that I really tremble for an hour after
every piece of nonsense I utter. You must observe by this that I am in a painfully frequent
state of trepidation; but what I meant by this message to Mrs. Kemble is that I have been extremely
amused at her taking the trouble to write to Mrs. George Siddons to find out "all about" my
going to the Drawing-room, and the rumor which had reached her of the Queen having desired
to see me. George Siddons told me this himself, and it struck me as such a funny interest in
my concerns on the part of Mrs. Kemble, who takes none whatever in me, that I thought I would
send her word of the piece of preferment which has occurred to me since, viz. being sent for
by the Queen Dowager, who desired my friend Mademoiselle d'Este to bring me to call upon her.
But what wonderful gossip it does seem to be writing gravely round and round from Leamington
to London, and from London to Leamington, about!

You ask me how it fares with me. Why, busily and wearily enough. We have had a perfect deluge
of invitations lately, two or three thick of a night....

We are going to-night to the Duchess of Sutherland's fancy ball at Stafford House, which is
to be a less formal, but not less magnificent, show than the Queen's masque.

I have not begun to rehearse "The Hunchback" yet, for I shall not require many rehearsals;
but one of our party attended the first this morning, and said all the young amateurs promised
very fairly, and that Henry Greville did his part extremely well, which I am very glad to hear.
I have had but one visit from him since his return to town, when, of course, he discussed Adelaide's
plans with great zeal. He certainly wishes very much that she should sing at the Opera, but
his view of the whole matter is so different from mine ... that we are not likely to agree
very well, even upon so general a point of discussion as her best professional interests.

I am much concerned at your observations about her exhaustion and hoarseness. I am so anxious
that her present life should not be prolonged, so anxious that she should realize her very
moderate wishes and leave it, that I cannot bear to think of any possible failure of her precious
gift from over-exertion.... I think, begging your pardon, you talk some nonsense when you compare
your existence, as an object of rational pity, with my sister's. All other considerations set
apart, there are certain conditions of life, which are the result of peculiar states and stages
of society, that are indisputably less favorable for the production of happiness, and the exercise
of goodness also, than others. Among these results of over-civilization are the careers of
public exhibitors of every description. In judging of their conduct or character, we may make
every allowance for the peculiar dangers of their position, and the temptations of their peculiar
gifts; but I confess I am amazed at any woman who, sheltered by the sacred privacy of a home,
can envy the one or desire the other.

Dearest Harriet, this letter has lain so long unfinished, and I am now so engulfed in all sorts
of worry, flurry, hurry, row, fuss, bustle, bother, dissipation and distraction, that it is
vain hoping to add anything intelligible to it. Good-bye, dearest.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          HARLEY STREET, May 29th, 1842.
  DEAREST HARRIET,

This is Sunday, and, owing to my custom of neither paying visits nor going to dinner or evening
parties on "the first day of the week," I look forward to a little leisure; though the repeated
raps at the door already this morning remind me that it will probably be interrupted often
enough to render it of little avail for any purpose of consecutive occupation....

You ask me if I think of "taking to translating." My dear Harriet, if you mean when I return
to America, I shall take to nothing there but the stagnant life I led there before, which,
in the total absence of any impulse from the external circumstances in which I live and the
utter absence of any interest in any intellectual pursuit in those with whom I live, becomes
absolutely inevitable; and so I think that, once again in my Transatlantic home, I shall neither
originate nor translate anything.

I have "taken to translating" "Mademoiselle de Belle Isle" because my bill at Mademoiselle
Dévy's is £97, and I am determined my brains shall pay it; therefore, also, I have given my
father a ballet on the subject of Pocahontas, and am preparing and altering "Mademoiselle de
Belle Isle" for Covent Garden, for both which pieces of work I hope to get something towards
my £97. Besides this, I have offered my "Review of Victor Hugo" to John for the British Quarterly
Review, of which he is, you know, the editor--of course, telling him that it was written for
an American magazine--and he has promised me sixteen guineas for it if it suits him. Besides
this, I have offered Bentley the beginning of my Southern journal, merely an account of our
journey down to the plantation.... Besides this, I have drawn up and sketched out, act by act,
scene by scene, and almost speech by speech, a play in five acts, a sequel to the story of
Kotzebue's "Stranger," which I hope to make a good work of. Thus, you see, my brains are not
altogether idle; and, with all this, I am rehearsing "The Hunchback" with our amateurs, for
three and four hours at a time, attending to my own dresses and Adelaide's (who will attend
to nothing), returning, as usual, all the visits, and going out to dinners and parties innumerable.
This, you will allow, is rather a double-quick-time sort of existence; but the after-lull of
the future will be more than sufficient for rest.

Alexandre Dumas is the author of "Mademoiselle de Belle Isle," and I was led to select that
piece to work upon, not so much from the interest of the story, which is, however, considerable,
as from the dramatic skill with which it is managed, and the circumstances made to succeed
each other. There is, unfortunately, an insuperably objectionable incident in it, which I have
done my best to modify; but it is one of the most ingeniously constructed pieces I have seen
for a long time, and gives admirable opportunities for good acting to almost every member of
the dramatis personæ.

Mademoiselle d'Este has no right to the painful feeling of illegitimacy, for her mother was
her father's wife, and therefore she has not, what indeed I can conceive to be, a bitter source
of wounded pride and incessant rational mortification. The Duke of Sussex married Lady Augusta
Murray, and that, I should think, might satisfy his daughter, in spite of all the Acts of Parliament
afterwards devised to restrict and regulate royal marriages. Mademoiselle d'Este's is merely
a perpetual protest against an irreversible social decree, and an incessant, unavailing struggle
for the observance and respect conventionally due to a rank which is not hers; and though it
appears to me as senseless a cause of trouble as ever human being chose to accept, yet as incessant
bitterness and mortification and annoyance are its results for her, poor soul! of course to
her it is real enough, if not in itself, in the results she gathers from it.

My dinner has intervened, my dear, since this last sentence, and, moreover, a permission from
my sister to inform you that she is engaged to be married!...

You ask how Adelaide looks after her Dublin campaign. She looks better now, in spite of all
her fatigue, than she has done since her return from Italy; her face looks almost fat, to which
appearance, however, it is in some degree helped by her hair being already in rehearsal for
"The Hunchback," falling in ringlets on each side of her head, which becomes her very much....

I have heard from Elizabeth Sedgwick, and she concurs in the propriety of my not giving Mrs.
Child my Southern journal. I shall say no more upon that subject....

Good-bye, dearest Harriet. I look forward with anticipated refreshment to a ride which I have
some chance of getting to-morrow, and for which I am really gasping. I got one ride this week,
and the escort that came to the door for me touched and flattered me not a little: old Lord
Grey and Lady G----, and his two grandsons, and Lord Dacre, and B---- S----, all came up from
their part of the town to fetch me a ride, which was a great kindness on their part, and an
honor, pleasure, and profit to me. God bless you, dear. I feel, as Margery says, "in a kind
of bewilder," but ever yours,

                                                                  FANNY.

    [My first meeting with Mademoiselle d'Este took place at Belvoir
    Castle, where we were both on a visit to the Duke of Rutland, and
    where my attention was drawn to the peculiarity of her conduct by my
    neighbor at the dinner-table, who said to me, just after we had
    taken our places, "Do you see Mademoiselle d'Este? She will do that
    now every day while she remains here." Mademoiselle d'Este at this
    moment entered the dining-room alone, and passed down the side of
    the table with an inclination to the duke, and a half-muttered
    apology about being late. This, it seems, was simply a pretence to
    cover her determination not to give precedence to any of the women
    in the house by being taken into dinner after them. The Duchesses of
    Bedford and Richmond, the Countess of Winchelsea, and other women of
    rank being then at the castle, Mademoiselle d'Este's pretensions
    stood not the slightest chance of acknowledgment, and she took this
    quite ineffectual way of protesting against her social position.

    Everybody at Belvoir was sufficiently familiar with her to accept
    these sort of proceedings on her part. To me they seemed more
    undignified and wanting in real pride and self-respect than a quiet
    acquiescence in the inevitable would have been. The conventional
    distinction she demanded had been legally refused her, and it was
    not in the power of the society to which she belonged to give it to
    her, however much they might have felt inclined to pity her position
    and excuse her resentment of it. But it was inconceivable to me that
    she should not either withdraw absolutely from all society (which is
    what I should have done in her place), or submit silently to an
    injury against which all protest was vain, which renewed itself, in
    some shape or other, daily, and which really involved no personal
    affront to her or injustice to the character of her mother. I
    thought she made a great mistake, which did not prevent my being
    attracted by her; and while we were at Belvoir, and immediately
    afterwards at Lord Willoughby's together, and subsequently on our
    return to London, we had a good deal of familiar and friendly
    intercourse with each other, in the course of which I had many
    opportunities of observing the perpetual struggle she maintained
    against what she considered the intolerable hardship of her
    position.

    She occupied a pretty little house in Mount Street, Grosvenor
    Square, and never allowed her servants to wear anything but the
    undress of the royal household; the scarlet livery being, of course,
    out of the question. On one or two occasions I dined with her
    tête-à-tête, and took no notice of the fact, which I remembered
    afterwards, that she invariably sent the servant out of the room,
    and helped herself and me with her own hands; but once, when the
    Duchess of B---- dined with us, and Mademoiselle d'Este had a
    dumb-waiter placed beside her, and, sending the man-servant out of
    the room, performed all the table service (except, indeed, bringing
    in the dishes), with our assistance only, the duchess assured me
    afterwards that this was simply because, in her own house,
    Mademoiselle d'Este would not submit to the unroyal indignity of
    being waited upon after her guests at her own table by her own
    servants.

    When the preparations for the fancy ball at the Palace were turning
    half the great houses in London into milliners' shops, filled with
    stuffs, and patterns, and pictures, and materials for fancy dresses,
    and drawings of costumes, and gabbling, shrieking, distracted women,
    Mademoiselle d'Este consulted me about her dress, and we passed a
    whole morning looking over a huge collection of plates of historical
    personages and picturesque portraits of real or imaginary heroines.
    Among these I repeatedly put aside several that I thought would be
    especially becoming to her dark beauty and fine figure; and as often
    was surprised to find that among those I had thus selected she had
    invariably rejected a certain proportion, among which were two or
    three particularly beautiful and appropriate, one or other of which
    I should certainly have chosen for her above the rest. I couldn't
    imagine upon what theory of selection she was guiding her
    examination of the prints until, upon closer examination, I
    perceived that the only portraits from which she had determined to
    make her choice of a costume were those of princesses of blood
    royal. Poor woman!

    I once saw a curious encounter between her and the Marchioness of
    L----, in which the most insolent woman of the London society of
    that day was worsted with her own peculiar weapon, by the princess
    "claimant," and ignominiously beaten from the field.

    The occasion of my being presented to the Queen Dowager was this: I
    had been dining one day with Mademoiselle d'Este, when the
    Marchioness of Londonderry came in, and read me a note she had
    received from the Duke of Rutland, in which the latter said that the
    Queen had asked him why I had not been presented at Court. After
    Lady Londonderry was gone, I expressed some surprise at this
    unexpected honor, and some dismay at finding that it was considered
    a matter of course that, under these circumstances, I should go to
    the Drawing-room. I felt shy about the ceremony, and sordidly
    reluctant to spend the sum of money upon my dress which I knew it
    must cost me. All this I discussed with Mademoiselle d'Este, and
    expressing my surprise at the Queen's having condescended to ask why
    I didn't have myself presented, Mademoiselle d'Este exclaimed, "Oh,
    my dear, those people are so curious!" meaning the Queen and Prince
    Albert, towards whom she had a great feeling of sore dislike; but
    whether she meant by "curious" inquisitive or singular--queer--I
    didn't ask her, being rather astonished at this "singular" mode of
    speaking of our liege lady and her illustrious consort.

    Poor Mademoiselle d'Este's feeling of bitterness against the Queen
    arose, I have since been told, from various small slights which her
    sensitive pride conceived she had received from her. Mademoiselle
    d'Este's determination to assert her right to be considered a royal
    personage had, perhaps, met with some other rebuffs from the Queen,
    besides the one which she herself told me of with great irritation.

    On the occasion of Queen Adelaide's Drawing-rooms, she had always
    permitted Mademoiselle d'Este to make her entrance by the same
    approach, and at the same time, with other members of the royal
    family. After the accession of Queen Victoria, Mademoiselle d'Este
    claimed the same privilege, which, however, was not granted her. She
    told me this with many passionate, indignant comments, and
    apparently desirous that I should be impressed by the superior charm
    and graciousness of Queen Adelaide, whom she called "her Queen," and
    of whom she spoke with the most affectionate regard and respect, she
    said, "You must come with me and see my Queen," and accordingly
    she solicited permission to present me to the Queen Dowager, which
    was granted, and I went with her one morning to pay my respects to
    that great and good lady, and was to have done so a second time, but
    was prevented by our departure from town.

    I drove with Mademoiselle d'Este to Marlborough House in the
    morning, and we were ushered through several apartments into a
    small-sized sitting-room, where we were left. After a few moments a
    lady entered, to whom Mademoiselle d'Este presented me. The Queen
    Dowager was then apparently between fifty and sixty years old; a
    thin, middle-sized woman, with gray hair and a long face, discolored
    by the traces of some eruption. She looked in ill health, and was
    certainly very plain, but her manner and the expression of her face
    were very gentle and gracious, and her voice, with its German
    accent, sweet and agreeable. She asked Mademoiselle d'Este if she
    was going to the Duchess of Sutherland's ball, and on her replying
    that she was not going, and giving some trifling reason for not
    doing so, I couldn't help laughing, because on our way to
    Marlborough House she had told me, with what appeared to me very
    superfluous wrath and indignation, that she had received an
    invitation to the duchess's ball, but that as it was coupled with an
    intimation that it was hoped the persons who had been at the Queen's
    great fancy ball, given a week before, would wear the same costumes
    at Stafford House, Mademoiselle d'Este chose to consider this an
    impertinent dictation, and said first "she would go in a plain white
    satin gown," then "in a white muslin petticoat," finally, that "she
    wouldn't go at all;" and working herself up by degrees into more
    fury as she talked, she abused the Duchess of Sutherland vehemently,
    mimicking her in a most ludicrous manner, and saying that she always
    reminded her of "a great fat, white, trussed turkey," which
    comparison and the ridiculous rage in which she made it made me
    laugh till I cried, in spite of my admiration for the Duchess of
    Sutherland, whose beauty and gracious sweetness of manner always
    seemed to me very charming. When therefore, Mademoiselle d'Este
    assigned another reason for not going to the Stafford House ball, in
    answer to the Queen's inquiry, I couldn't help laughing, and told
    the Queen the truth was that Mademoiselle d'Este's pride was hurt at
    being requested to come in the fancy dress she had worn at the
    Palace; and so, for this imaginary absurd offence, she was going to
    give up a very fine and pleasant fête. The Queen laughed, and,
    turning to Mademoiselle d'Este, said, "Your friend is right. You are
    very foolish; you will lose a pleasant evening for nothing."

    After this the conversation fell on the French plays and the
    performances of Mademoiselle Déjazet, who was then acting at the St.
    James's Theatre. The Queen having asked my opinion of these
    representations, I said I was unwilling to enter upon the subject,
    as I did not know how far the forms of etiquette would permit me to
    express what I thought in her Majesty's presence. Upon her pressing
    me, however, to state my opinion upon the subject, I reiterated what
    I had said in a previous conversation with Mademoiselle d'Este upon
    the matter, objecting to the extreme immorality of the pieces, and
    expressing my astonishment at seeing decent Englishwomen crowd to
    them night after night, since they certainly would not tolerate such
    representations on the English stage.

    Mademoiselle d'Este replied that that was because, on the English
    stage, they would be coarse and vulgar. I denied that the difference
    of language made any essential difference in the matter, though she
    was certainly right in saying that the less refined style of English
    acting might make the offensiveness of such pieces more unpleasantly
    obtrusive; but that in looking round the assembly of fine ladies at
    Déjazet's performances, I comforted myself by feeling very sure that
    half of them did not understand what they were listening to; but I
    think it must have been "nuts" to the clever, cynical, witty,
    impudent Frenchwoman to see these dames trois fois respectables
    swallow her performances sans sourcilliez.

    After some more conversation on general subjects, the Queen Dowager
    rose, saying she hoped Mademoiselle d'Este would bring me to visit
    her again; and so we received our congé.

    Mentioning the appearance of some eruption on the good Queen's face
    reminds me of a painful circumstance which took place one day when,
    meeting a beautiful child of about four years old, the daughter of
    one of the ladies of the Court, who was going into the Palace
    gardens under the escort of her nurse, the Queen stopped the child,
    and, attracted by her beauty, stooped to kiss her, when the little
    thing drew back with evident disgust, exclaiming, "No, no; you have
    a red face! Mamma says I must never kiss anybody with a red face."
    The poor Queen probably seldom received such a plain statement of
    facts in return for her condescension. Her unostentatious goodness
    and amiable character have now become matter of history. One of the
    most characteristic traits of her life was her ordering of her own
    funeral with a privacy and simplicity more touching than any royal
    pomp, specifying that her coffin should be carried to the grave by
    four sailors--a last tribute of affection to her husband's memory.

    Among the passages in Charles Greville's Memoirs that shocked me
    most, and that I read with the most pain, were the coarse and cruel
    terms in which he spoke of Queen Adelaide.

    Mademoiselle d'Este, when far advanced in middle life, married Lord
    Chancellor Truro. She may have found in so doing a certain
    satisfaction to her pride which no other alliance with a commoner
    could have afforded her, since the Lord Chancellor of England (no
    matter of how lowly an origin), on certain occasions, takes
    precedence of the whole aristocracy of the land.]

                                  HARLEY STREET, Monday, May 30th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I have just finished a letter to you, in which I tell you that I have sketched out the skeleton
of another tragedy; but I find Emily has been beforehand with me. You ask me what has moved
me to this mental effort. My milliner's bill, my dear; which, being £97 sterling, I feel extremely
inclined to pay out of my own brains; for, though they received a very severe shock, and one
of rather paralyzing effect, upon my being reminded that whatever I write is not my own legal
property, but that of another, which, of course, upon consideration, I know; I cannot, nevertheless,
persuade myself that that which I invent--create, in fact--can really belong to any one but
myself; therefore, if anything I wrote could earn me £97, I am afraid I should consider that
I, and no one else, had paid my bill.

In thinking over the position of women with regard to their right to their own earnings, I
confess to something very like wrathful indignation; impotent wrath and vain indignation, to
be sure--not the less intense for that, however, for the injustice is undoubtedly great. That
a man whose wits could not keep him half a week from starving should claim as his the result
of a mental process such as that of composing a noble work of imagination--say "Corinne," for
example--seems too beneficent a provision of the law for the protection of male superiority.
It is true that, by our marriage bargain, they feed, clothe, and house us, and are answerable
for our debts (not my milliner's bill, though, if I can prevent it), and so, I suppose, have
a right to pay themselves as best they can out of all we are or all we can do. It is a pretty
severe puzzle, and a deal of love must be thrown into one or other or both scales to make the
balance hang tolerably even.

Madame de Staël, I suppose, might have said to Rocca, "If my brains are indeed yours, why don't
you write a book like 'Corinne' with them?" You know, though he was perfectly amiable, and
she married him for love, he was an intellectual zero; but perhaps the man who, acknowledging
her brilliant intellectual superiority, could say, "Je l'aimerai tant, qu'elle finira par m'aimer,"
deserved to be master even of his wife's brains.... I wish women could be dealt with, not mercifully,
nor compassionately, nor affectionately, but justly; it would be so much better--for men.

How can you ask me if I despise, as great gossip, Emily's telling you that I am writing another
tragedy! Why, my dear, I shouldn't consider it despicable gossip if Emily were to tell you
what colored gloves I had on the last time she saw me. Do we not all three love each other
dearly? and is not everything, no matter how trifling, of interest in that case? But Mrs. John
Kemble does not pretend to love me dearly, I flatter myself, and therefore her writing to inquire
into my proceedings, and for minute details of my presentation at Court, did seem to me contemptible
gossip. At her age, perhaps, it is pardonable enough, though it appears to me rather inconsistent,
when one has no liking for a person, to trouble one's head about where they go or what they do.

You ask me about the subject of my play. It is one that my father suggested to me years ago,
and which grew out of a question as to whether the Stranger (in Kotzebue's play so called)
does or does not forgive his unfaithful wife in the closing scene. With several other dramatic
schemes, it has hovered dimly before my imagination for some time past. The other night, however,
as I was brushing my hair before going to bed, my brain, I suppose, receiving some stimulus
from the scrubbing of my skull, the whole idea suddenly came towards me with increasing distinctness,
till it gradually stood up as it were from head to foot before me--a very mournful figure,
whose form and features were all vividly defined. I instantly caught up S----'s copy-books--there
was no other paper at hand--and on the covers of two of them wrote out my play, act by act
and scene by scene.... The short-lived triumph of this spirit of inspiration died away under
the effect of a conversation by which it was interrupted, and I collapsed like a fallen omelette
soufflée (not to say souffletée).

The story of my piece is a sequel to "The Stranger," the retribution which reaches the faithless
wife and mother in her children, after they grow up; which, together with the perpetual struggle
on the part of her husband (who has taken her home again) not to wound her conscience, which
is so sick and sore that every word, breath, and look does wound it, might form, I think, an
interesting dramatic picture, with considerable elements for poetry to work upon.

I went to the Duchess of Sutherland's fancy ball in my favorite costume, a Spanish dress, which
suited my finances as well as my fancy, my person, and my purse; for I had nothing to get but
a short black satin skirt, having beautiful flounces of black lace, high comb, mantilla, and,
in short, all things needful already in my own possession.

I have told you of Adelaide's new prospects, in which I rejoice as much as I can rejoice in
anything. She is herself very happy, poor child! and 'tis a pleasure and a positive relief
to see her face, with its bright expression of newly dawned hope upon it.

Good-night, dear. My head aches, and I feel weary and worn out; our life just now is one of
insane, incessant dissipation. Thank God, I have a bed, and have not lost the secret of sleeping.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [A long discussion with my wise and excellent friend and connection,
    Mr. Horace Wilson, induced me to think a good deal upon the
    possibility of a man, in the position of Kotzebue's "Stranger,"
    receiving back his wife to the home she had deserted. Mr. Wilson
    condemned the idea as absolutely inadmissible and fatally immoral.
    In our Saviour's teaching it is said that a man shall put away his
    wife for only one cause; but is it said that he shall in every
    case put her away for that cause? and is the offence a wife
    commits against her husband the one exception to the universal law
    of the forgiveness which Christ taught? Men have so considered it;
    and in the general interest of the preservation of society, a wife's
    fidelity to her duties becomes one of the most important elements of
    security; the protection of the family, the integrity of
    inheritance, the rightful descent of property, are all involved in
    it. But these are questions of social expediency, and, though based
    on deep moral foundations, are not of such overwhelming moral force
    as to forbid the contemplation of any possible exception to their
    authority. I have heard--I know not if it is true--that in some
    parts of Germany, formerly, where the practice of divorce obtained
    to a degree tolerated nowhere else in Christendom, it occasionally
    happened that, after a legal separation and intermediate marriages
    (sanctioned also by the law), the original pair, set free once more
    by death or second divorce, resumed their first ties--a condition
    of things which appears monstrous, considered as that which we call
    marriage, with the English and American branch of the Anglo-Saxon
    family, the holiest of human ties; with Roman Catholic Christians,
    an indissoluble bond, sacred as a sacrament of their Church.

    Without being able to determine the question satisfactorily in my
    own mind with reference to the supposed conclusion of the play of
    "The Stranger," in which Mr. Wilson said that the husband, receiving
    his repentant wife in his arms, was highly offensive to all
    morality, which demanded imperatively her absolute rejection and
    punishment, I began to consider what sort of escape from punishment
    it might be which would probably follow the forgiveness of her
    husband, her readmission to her home, and the renewal of her
    intercourse with her children. In Kotzebue's play the persons are
    all German, and their nationality has to be borne in mind in
    contemplating Waldburg's possible forgiveness of his wife.
    Steinforth, his dearest friend, and a man of the highest honor and
    morality (as conceived by the author), urges upon Waldburg the
    pardon of Adelaide; urges it almost as a duty, and zealously assists
    Madame von Wintersen's plan of bringing the unhappy people together,
    and effecting a reconciliation between them by means of the
    unexpected sight of their children. Moreover, when Waldburg rejects
    his friend's advice and entreaties that he will forgive his wife,
    it is hardly upon the ground of any deep moral turpitude involved in
    such a forgiveness, but upon the score of the insupportable
    humiliation of reappearing in the great world of German society to
    which they both belong with "his runaway wife on his arm," and the
    "whispering, pointing, jeering" of which their reconciliation would
    be the object, winding up with the irrevocable "Never! never!
    never!"

    Nevertheless, in Kotzebue's play he does receive his wife in his
    arms as the curtain falls, and the German public go home comforted
    in believing her forgiven. I do not know how the dumb-show at the
    end of the English play is generally conducted; but in my father's
    instance, I know he so far carried out my friend Horace Wilson's
    sentiment (which was also his own on the subject) that, while his
    miserable wife falls senseless at his feet, he turns again in the
    act of flying from her as the curtain drops, leaving the English
    public to go home comforted in the belief that he had not forgiven
    her.

    The result of these discussions, as I said, led me to imagine how
    far such a woman would escape her righteous punishment, even if
    restored to her home; and in the sequel to "The Stranger," which I
    endeavored to construct, I worked out my own ideas upon the subject.

    Forgiveness of sin is not remission of punishment; and the highest
    justice might rest satisfied with the conviction that God, who
    forgives every sinner, punishes every sin; nor can even His mercy
    remit the righteous consequence ordained by it. God's punishments
    are consequences, the results of His all-righteous laws, never to
    be escaped from, but leaving forever possible the blessed hope of
    His forgiveness; but no one ever yet outran his sin or escaped from
    its inevitable result.

    The grosser human justice, however, which is obliged to execute
    itself on the bodies of criminals demands the open degradation and
    social ostracism of unfaithful wives as a necessary portion of its
    machinery, and the well-being of the society which it maintains.]

                                 HARLEY STREET, Friday, June 10th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I finished one letter to you last night, and, finding that I cannot obtain tackle to go on
the river this morning and fish, I sit down to write you another. And first, dear, about getting
an admission for E---- to see our play. I am sorry to say it is not in my power. Thinking I
had rather a right to one or two invitations for my own friends on each of the nights, I asked
Lady Francis to give me three tickets for the first representation, intending to beg the same
number for each night. I gave one to Mr. S----, and another to a nephew of Talma's, a very
agreeable French naval officer, with whom we have become acquainted, and who besought one of
me. But when I had proceeded thus far in my distribution of admissions, I was told I had committed
an indiscretion in asking for any, and that I must return the remaining one, which I did, ...
and when your request came about a ticket for E----, I was simply assured that it was "impossible."
So, dear, you must be, as I must be, satisfied with this decision--which I am not, for I am
very sorry, ... Lady Francis would gladly, I have no doubt, have asked any of my friends had
we wished her to do so; she did send an invitation to Horace Wilson and his wife, but that
was because he was to have acted for her, and was only prevented by being too unwell to undertake
the part.

I am very glad that Captain Seymour likes me, as the liking is very reciprocal. Indeed, I think
our whole company presents a very favorable specimen of our young English gentlemen: they are
all of them very young, full of good spirits, amiable, obliging, good-humored, good-tempered,
and well-mannered; in short, I think, very charming.

How shall I feel, you say, acting that part again?... My dearest Harriet, thus much at Richmond
on Monday morning; it is now Thursday evening, and I have been crying and in a miserable state
of mind and body all day long. On Monday we acted "The Hunchback" for the third time, and on
Tuesday we all went down to Cranford, and drew long breaths as we got into the delicious air,
all fragrant with hay and honeysuckle and syringa. I left my children at what was in posting
days a famous country inn, at about half a mile from Lady Berkeley's house, but which, since
the completion of the railroad, has become much less frequented and important, but is quiet
and comfortable and pleasant enough to make it a very nice place of deposit for my chicks.

On Wednesday afternoon, when I went over to see them, I found F----, pale and coughing, and
heard with dismay that the measles were pervading the whole neighborhood. I went to town that
evening to act "The Hunchback" for the last time, and was haunted by horrid visions of my child
ill and suffering, and the very first thing I met on entering London was a child's coffin and
funeral. You can better judge than I can express how this sort of omen affected my imagination;
and in this frame of mind I went through our last representation of "The Hunchback," and did
not reach home till the white face of the morning was beginning to look down from the ends
of the streets at us.

We did not get to bed till past three, and were up again at a little after seven, in order
to take the railroad to Cranford, where we had promised to breakfast. One of our party was
too late for the train, and we posted down with four horses in order to save our time, which
on the great Ascot day was not, as you may suppose, a very economical proceeding....

Good-bye, dear. I will answer all your questions about "The Hunchback" another time.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                 FANNIE.

                                         HARLEY STREET, June 12th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

... I am now going to answer your various questions to the best of my ability. You wanted to
know how I felt at acting "The Hunchback" again. Why, so horribly nervous the first night that
the chair shook under me while my hair was being dressed. I trembled to such a degree from
head to foot, and the rustling of the curl-papers as the man twisted them in my hair almost
drove me distracted, for it sounded like a forest cracking and rattling in a storm. After the
performance, my limbs ached as if I had been beaten across them with an iron bar, and I could
scarcely stand or support myself for exhaustion and fatigue. This, however, was only the first
night, and I suppose proceeded from the painful uncertainty I felt as to whether I had not
utterly forgotten how to act at all. This one representation over, I had neither fright, nervousness,
nor the slightest fatigue, and it is singular enough that no recollections or associations
whatever of past times were awakened by the performance. I was fully engrossed by the endeavor
to do the part as well as I could, and, except in the particular of copying, as well as I could
recollect it, my dress of former days, the Julia of nine years ago did not once present herself
to my thoughts. The first time I played it, I rather think I was worse than formerly, but after
that probably much the same....

How does this dreadfully hot weather agree with you, my dear? For my own part, I am parboiled
and stupid beyond all expression. I hate heat always and everywhere, and it seems to me that
in our damp climate it is even more oppressive than under the scorching skies of August in
Pennsylvania. However, of that I won't be sure, for the present is, with me, always better
or worse than the absent.

I think I have nothing more to tell you about "The Hunchback." ... Beyond doing it as well
as I could, I cared very little about it; it seemed a sort of routine business, just as it
used to be, except for the inevitable unwholesome results of its being amusement instead of
business; the late hours--three o'clock in the morning--and champagne and lobster salad suppers,
instead of my former professional decent tea and to bed, after my work, before twelve o'clock.

Adelaide acted Helen charmingly, without having bestowed the slightest pains upon it. Had she
condescended to give it five minutes' careful study, it would have been a perfect performance
of its kind; but as it was, it was delightfully droll, lively, and graceful, and certainly
proved her natural powers of comic acting to be very great....

You ask me about my play. I have not touched it since I wrote to you last, and really do not
know when I shall have a minute in which to do so, unless, indeed, in this coming week at Oatlands,--and
a great deal may be done in a week; but I am altogether quite down about it. Our last representation
of "The Hunchback" was, as in duty bound, the best, and everybody was, or pretended to be,
in ecstasies with it. Our time and attention have been so engrossed with the dresses, rehearsals,
and performances that we absolutely seemed to experience a sudden lull in our daily lives after
it was all over.

I shall probably not be in town till the 24th. I am going down to Mrs. Grote's with my sister
on the 21st, and as S---- is of the party, it will not, I suppose, be according to "received
ideas" that I should leave her there. On the 24th, however, she must be back in town; and as
for my departure for America, dear Hal, you do well not to grieve too much beforehand about
that.... Therefore, my dear Hal, lament not over my departure, for Heaven only knows when we
shall depart, or if indeed we shall depart at all.

Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                              OATLANDS, June 14th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

... I return to town this evening in order to go to a party at Mrs. Grote's, to which we have
been engaged for some time past, and remain in town all to-morrow, because we dine at Harness's....
The quiet of this place, and very near twelve hours' sleep, and, above all, a temporary relief
from all causes of nervous distress, have done me all the good in the world.... I cannot but
think mine, in one respect, a curious fate; and perhaps, with the magnifying propensity of
egotism, I exaggerate what seems to me its peculiarity. But to be placed for years together
out of the reach of all society; to be left day after day to the solitude of an absolutely
lonely life; to be deprived of all stimulus from without; to hear no music; to see no works
of art; to hear no intellectually brilliant or even tolerably cultivated or interesting conversation;
indeed, often to pass days without exchanging a thought or even a word with any grown person
but my servants; to ride for hours every day alone through lonely roads and paths, sit down
daily to a solitary dinner, and pass most of my evenings listening to the ticking of the clock,
or wandering round and round the dark garden-walks;--to lead, I say, such a life for a length
of time, and then be plunged into the existence, the sort of social Maelstrom we are living
in here now, is surely a great trial to a person constituted like myself, and would be something
of one, I think, to a calmer mind and more equable temperament than mine....

You ask if my father has been told of our intended return to America. I have told him, but
neither he nor any one else appears to believe in it; and from what I wrote you in my last
letter, I think you will agree that they are justified in their incredulity.

You ask how Adelaide is. Flourishing greatly; the annoyance and vexation of the late difficulties
with the theatre being past, she has recovered her spirits, and seems enjoying to the full
her present hopes of future happiness....

God bless you, my dear Hal.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                              OATLANDS, June 16th, 1842.
  MY DEAR T----,

An hour's railroading from London has brought me into a lovely country, a perfect English landscape
of broad lawns, thick tufted oaks, and placid waters, under my windows. But an hour from that
glare, confusion, din, riot, and insanity, to the soothing sights and sounds of this rural
paradise! And after looking at it till my spirits have subsided into something like kindred
composure and placidity, I open my letter-case, and find your last unanswered epistle lying
on the top of it. "If Cunard and Harnden have proved true," you must have received by this
time our reply to your proposition touching the Coster business. Thus far on Monday last; and
having proceeded thus far, I fell fast asleep, with the pen in my hand, the sound of the rustling
trees in my ears, and the smell of the new-mown grass in my nose. Since that noonday nap of
mine, I have been back to town for a party at Mrs. Grote's and a dinner at Harness's. I mention
names because these worthies are known to Catherine and Kate; and here I am, thanks to the
railroad, back again among all these lovely sights and sounds and smells, and pick up my pen
forthwith to renew my conversation with you. And first, as in duty bound, business. I wrote
you word that we did not disdain the compromise offered by Mr. Coster, and we now further beg
that you will receive and keep for us the sum proposed by that gentleman as payment of his debt.

Thank you very much for your kindness to H-----. Kate wrote me a most ludicrous account of
the poor singer's first experiment on his voice in your presence. I have not the least idea
what his merits really are, having never heard or, to the best of my knowledge, seen him; but,
as a pupil of the Royal Academy, his acquirements ought certainly to be those of a competent
teacher. However, I need not, I am sure, tell you that, in recommending him to you, I did not
contemplate laying the slightest stress upon your conscience, and having heard him you must
recommend him or not according to that....

My sister thanks you for your zeal on her behalf, and so do I; but you will not be called upon
for any further, or rather, I should say, nearer demonstration of it; for the young lady has
lately come to the conclusion that marrying and staying at home is better than wandering singing
over the face of the earth; and I suppose by next Christmas she will be married. I have no
room for more.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [My correspondence with my friend Miss S---- was interrupted by a
    visit of several weeks which she paid us, and not resumed on my part
    until the month of August, when I was on my way back from Scotland,
    and she was travelling on the Continent with her friend Miss W----.]

                                LIVERPOOL, Wednesday, August 10th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

You bid me write to you immediately upon receiving your letter of the 24th of July, dated from
Ulm, but I only received that letter last night on my arrival here from Scotland, and I know
not how long its rightful delivery to me has been delayed. I fear, in consequence of this circumstance,
this answer to it may miscarry; for perhaps you will have left Munich by the time it gets there.
However, I can but do as you bid me, and so I do it, and hope this, for me, rare exercise of
the virtue of obedience may find its reward in my letter reaching you.

I am glad your meeting with the Combes was so pleasant. I can bear witness to the truth of
their melancholy account of dear Dr. Combe, whom I went to see while I was in Edinburgh. He
is so emaciated that the point of his knee-bone, through his trousers, perfectly fascinated
me; I couldn't keep my eyes off it, it looked so terribly and sharply articulated that it seemed
as if it were coming through the cloth. His countenance, however, was the same as ever, or,
if possible, even brighter, sweeter, and more kindly benevolent. I have always had the most
affectionate regard and admiration for him, and think him in some respects superior to his brother.

I am delighted to think of your fine weather, and the great enjoyment it must be to you two,
so happy in each other, to travel through the lovely summer days together, filling your minds
and storing your memories with beautiful things of art and nature, which will be an intellectual
treasure in common, and a fountain of delightful retrospective sympathy....

You must continue to direct to Harley Street, for although we were, by our original agreement,
to have left it on the 1st of August, I conclude, as it is now the 10th, and I have heard no
word of our removing, that some arrangement has been made for our remaining there, at least
till our departure, which I understand is fixed for October 21st....

I have received a letter from Elizabeth Sedgwick, informing me that Kate's marriage is to take
place about October 10th. I shall not be at it, which I regret very much.

In the same letter she tells me that Dr. Channing is spending the summer at Lenox; and that
he had shown her a most interesting letter he had received from a house-builder in Cornwall,
England. This man wrote to Channing to thank him for the benefit he had derived from his writings,
particularly his lectures on the mental elevation of the working classes. Dr. Channing answered
this letter, and the poor man was so overjoyed at this favor, as he esteemed it, that he could
not refrain from pouring out his thankfulness in another letter, in which he assured his reverend
correspondent that the influence of his writings upon his class of the community in that part
of England was and had been very great, and instanced a fellow-artisan of his own, who said
that Channing's writings had reconciled him to being a working man. Elizabeth said that Dr.
Channing, while reading this letter, was divided between smiles and tears. She also told me
that he had talked to her a good deal about Mrs. Child (you know, the abolitionist who wanted
to publish my Southern journal; she is a correspondent of his, and a person for whom he has
the highest esteem, regarding her as "a most highly principled and noble-minded woman.")

I am so tired, dearest Hal, and feel such a general lassitude and discouragement of mind and
body, that I will end my letter. Give my most affectionate love to Dorothy, whom I should love
dearly if I saw her much. I wish I was with you, seeing the Danube, that river into which poor
Undine carried her immortal soul, and her broken woman's heart, when she faded over the boat's
side, saying, "Be true, be true, oh, misery!" God bless you, dearest Hal.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    HARLEY STREET, September 16th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

You ask me what I am doing. Flying about in every direction, like one distracted, trying to
amuse myself; going to evenings at Lady Lansdowne's, and to mornings at the Duchess of Buccleuch's;
dining at the Star and Garter at Richmond, in gay and great company, and driving home alone
between one and two o'clock in the morning....

I have undertaken to keep and to ride S----'s horse while he is away; and I think, by means
of regular exercise, I shall at any rate keep paroxysms aloof. I am going to a ball at Lord
Foley's on Monday; to a children's play at the Francis Egertons' on Tuesday; to Richmond again
to dine with the Miss Berrys and Lady Charlotte Lindsay on Wednesday; on Thursday to dine at
Horace Wilson's, etc.... Perhaps you will wonder, as I do sometimes, that I keep the few senses
I have in the life I lead; but so it is, and so it has to be.

Good-bye. God bless you. I keep this letter till I hear from you where to send it, and, with
dearest love to Dorothy, am

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    HARLEY STREET, September 30th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST GRANNY [LADY DACRE],

Yesterday morning we drove down to Chesterfield Street, not without sundry misgivings on my
part that Lord Dacre would feel that we persecute him, that he might be busy and not like being
interrupted, etc. When the door was opened, however, and while we were still interrogating
the footman, his own dear lordship came to it, and graciously bade me alight, which of course
I gladly did, and so we sat with him a matter of half an hour, hearing his discourse, which
ran at first on you and the dear girls [his granddaughters], and then broadened gradually from
private interests to his public experience, and all the varied observation of his honorable
political career. "I could have stayed all night to have heard good counsel," but was obliged
to drive to the theatre to fetch my sister from rehearsal, and so, most reluctantly, came away.
It seemed to me very good, and amiable, and humane, and condescending of Lord Dacre to spare
so much of his time and attention to us young and insignificant folk; the courtesy of his reception
was as deeply appreciated by me, I assure you, as the interest of his conversation; and so
tell my lord, with my best of courtesies.

I went in the evening to hear my sister sing "Norma" for the last time, and cried most bitterly,
and, moreover, thought exceedingly often of your ladyship; and why? I'll tell you; it was the
last time she was to do it, and when I saw that grace and beauty and rare union of gifts, which
were adapted to no other purpose half so well as to this of dramatic representation; when I
heard the voice of popular applause, that utterance of human sympathy, break at once simultaneously
from all those human beings whose emotions she was swaying at her absolute will,--my heart
sank to think that this beautiful piece of art (for such it now is, and very near perfection),
would be seen no more; that this rare power (a talent, as it verily then seemed to me, in the
solemn sense of the word, and a precious one of its own kind) was about to be folded in a napkin,
to bear interest no more, of profit or pleasure, to herself or others.

My dear Granny, you will well understand how I came to think of you during that performance;
for the first time, I thought like you on this subject. I caught myself saying, while the tears
streamed down my face, "If she is only happy, after all!" (But oh, that if!) It seemed amazing
to abdicate a secure fortune, and such a power--power to do anything so excellently (putting
its recognition by the public entirely out of account) for that fearful risk. God help us all!
'Tis a hard matter to judge rightly on any point whatever; and settled and firm as I had believed
my opinion on this subject to be, I was surprised to find how terrible it was to me to see
my sister, that woman most dear to me, deliberately leave a path where the sure harvest of
her labor is independent fortune, and a not unhonorable distinction, and a powerful hold upon
the sympathy, admiration, and even kindly regard of her fellow-creatures, while she thus not
unworthily ministers to their delight, for a life where, if she does not find happiness, what
will atone to her for all this that she will have left? However, I have need to remember, while
thinking of her and her future, what I have never forgotten hitherto, that the soul lives neither
on fortune, fame, nor happiness; and that which is noblest in her, which is above either her
genius, grace, or beauty, and far more precious than all of them united, will thrive, it may
be, better in obscurity and the different trials of her different life than in the vocation
she is now abandoning. Amen!

Thank you, my dear Granny, for all your advice, and still more for the love which dictates
it; I lay both to heart. Thank you, too, for the little book. I wish I knew the woman who wrote
it; she must be a paragon.

God bless you, dear Granny. I write you a kiss as the children do, and am

                              Ever your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       HARLEY STREET, October 2nd, 1842.
  MY DEAR T----,

It is hardly of any use writing to you, because, unless I am "drowned in the ditch," I shall
see you very soon after you get this letter. I have, however, as I believe you know, a very
decided principle upon the subject of answering letters, and therefore shall duly reply to
your epistle, though I hope to follow this in less than a fortnight.

I am sorry to say that if your ever "feeling young again" is to depend upon your seeing a Miss
Kemble once more in America, you are doomed to disappointment, and must decidedly go on, not
only growing but feeling old, as Miss Kembles there are now no more--at least at my father's
house.... So you see a due regard for her fellow-creatures on the other side of the Atlantic
has not existed in my sister's heart, or she would, of course, have postponed all personal
prospects of happiness, or rather peace and quiet, to a proper consideration for the gratification
of the American public.

I think your observations upon my projected journey to Georgia are taken from an entirely mistaken
point of view. I am utterly unconscious of entertaining any inimical feeling towards America
or the Americans; on the contrary, I am distinctly conscious of the highest admiration for
your institutions, and an affectionate regard for the northern part of your country (where
those institutions can alone be said to be put in practice) that is second only to the love
and reverence I bear to my own country. This being the case, I cannot think that anything I
write about America can, with any sort of propriety, be characterized as "the lashings of a foe."

With regard to Dickens, I do not know exactly what proceedings of his you refer to as exhibiting
want of taste or want of temper towards your country-people.... But small counterweights may
surely be allowed to such admirable qualities of both head and heart as he possesses. He sent
me, on his return to England, a printed circular, which was distributed among all his literary
acquaintances and friends, and which set forth his views with regard to the question of international
copyright; but except this, I know of nothing that he has publicly put forth upon the matter.
His "Notes" upon America come out, I believe, immediately; and I shall be extremely curious
to see them, and sorry if they are unfavorable, because his popularity as a writer is immense,
and whatever he publishes will be sure of a wide circulation. Moreover, as it is very well
known that, before going to America, he was strongly prepossessed in favor of its institutions,
manners, and people, any disparaging remarks he may make upon them will naturally have proportionate
weight, as the deliberate result of experience and observation. M---- told me, after dining
with Dickens immediately on his return, that one thing that had disgusted him was the almost
universal want of conscience upon money matters in America; and the levity, occasionally approaching
to something like self-satisfaction, for their "sharpness," which he had repeated occasions
of observing, in your people when speaking of the present disgraceful condition of their finances
and deservedly degraded state of their national credit.... But I do hope (because I have a
friend's and not a "foe's" heart towards your country) that Dickens will not write unfavorably
about it, for his opinion will influence public opinion in England, and deserves to do so.

As for Lord Morpeth, you need not be afraid of his "booking" you; he is the kindliest gentleman
alive, and moreover, I think, far too prudent a person for such a proceeding....

Lord Ashburton's termination of the boundary question is vehemently abused by the Opposition,
but that is of course. Some old-school Whigs, sound politicians, and great friends of mine,
were agreeing quietly among themselves the other day that anyhow they were heartily glad that
there was to be no war between the countries.

I perceive, however, that the question of the right of search (question brûlante, as the French
say) is still untouched, or rather unsettled; yet in my opinion it contains more elements of
danger than the other. But I suppose your great diplomatists think one question settled in
twenty years is quite enough for the rapid pace at which our Governments pant and puff after
public opinion in these steam-speed-thinking times.

We have been in the country till within the last fortnight, but have come up to town to prepare
for our departure. London is almost empty, but the only topics that keep alive the sparse population
of the club-houses are the dismissal of Baroness L---- from Court and her departure for Germany,
and a terrible esclandre in a very high circle, including royal personages.... I treat you
to the London scandal, and my doing so is ridiculous enough; but there is nothing I would not
sooner write about than myself and my own thoughts, feelings, and concerns, just now. How thankful
I shall be when this month is over!...

                              Believe me yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                     HARLEY STREET, Saturday, 8th, 1842.
  MY DEAR GRANNY,

I dined yesterday at Charles Greville's, where dined also Mr. Byng; both of them, I believe,
were your fellow-guests lately, at the Duke of Bedford's. Among other Woburn talk, there is
no little discourse about B----. Westmacott, too (the sculptor), who is a very old friend of
ours, chimed in, and we had a very pretty chorus on the argument of her fine countenance, striking
appearance, intelligence, etc., which I listened to and joined in with great pleasure, because
I love the child; thinking, at the same time, how many qualities, of which perhaps her gentlemen
eulogists took no cognizance, went to make up the charm of the outward appearance which they
admired--the candor, truth, humility, and moral dignity, the "inward and spiritual grace,"
of which what they praised is but "the outward and visible sign." As I know this, the commendation
of her superficial good gifts, by superficial observers, was very agreeable to me.

You ask me if I think you are going to keep up a correspondence with me at this rate. I do
not know exactly what that means; but be sure of one thing, that as long as I can succeed in
drawing an answer out of you, I shall persewere.

My father has a violent lumbago; so, I am sorry to say, has the theatre, which, in spite of
my sister's exertions, can hardly keep upon its legs. Her success has to compensate for the
deplorable houses on the nights when she does not appear. But great as her success is, it will
not make the nights pay on which she does not sing, when the theatre is absolutely empty. What
they will do when she goes I cannot in the smallest degree conceive. We are just being sucked
into the Maelstrom of bills, parcels, packages, books, pictures, valuables, trumpery, rummaging,
heaping together, throwing apart, selecting, discarding, and stowing away that precedes an
orderly departure after a two years' disorderly residence; in the midst of all which I have
neither leisure nor leave to attend to the heartache which, nevertheless, accompanies the whole
process with but little intermission.

Love to your dear lord and the dear girls, and believe me ever, my dear Granny,

                              Your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      HARLEY STREET, Friday, 14th, 1842.
  DEAR GRANNY,

I find there is every probability of our not leaving England until the 4th of November (several
people tell me they have been told so), and such is the extreme uncertainty of our movements
always that it would not surprise me very violently if we did not go then. I fear, however,
this will not afford me any further glimpses of you; and, indeed, at the bottom of my heart,
I do not wish for any more "last dying speeches and confessions." To part is very bad, but
to keep continually parting is unendurable.

My sister goes on with the "Semiramide," and her attraction in it increases. She acts and sings
admirably in it, and, all sisterly prepossessions apart, looks beautiful.

We went the other night to see "As You Like It" at Drury Lane. It was painfully acted, but
the scenery, etc., were charming; and though we had neither the caustic humor nor poetical
melancholy of Jacques, nor the brilliant wit and despotical fancifulness of the princess shepherd-boy
duly given, we had the warbling of birds, and sheep-bells tinkling in the distance, to comfort
us. I hope it is not profanation to say, "These should ye have done, and not have left the
others undone." Nevertheless, and in spite of all, the enchantment of Shakespeare's inventions
is such to me that they cannot be marred, let what will be done to them. As long as those words
of profoundest wisdom and those images of exquisite beauty are but uttered, their own perfection
swallows up all other considerations and impressions with me, and I bear indifferent and even
bad acting of Shakespeare better than most people.

Why did you not make him, instead of the stage, the subject of our discussions together? For
his works my enthusiasm grows every year of my life into a profounder and more wondering love
and admiration.

I am grateful for Lord Dacre's offer, though it was not made to me; and, had it been so, should
have closed with it eagerly. To correspond with one who has seen and known and thought so much
is a rare privilege.

Good-bye, dear Granny. Give my love to the girls, and my "duty" to my lord, and believe me

                              Your affectionate
                                                           FANNY BUTLER.

                                      HARLEY STREET, Friday, 23rd, 1842.
  MY DEAR GRANNY,

That last half-hour before we got off from "The Hoo" the other day was a severe trial to my
self-command; but I was anxious not to afflict you, and I was willing, if possible, to begin
the bitter series of partings, of which the next month will be one succession, with something
like fortitude, however I may end it. Thank you for writing to me, and thank you for all your
kindness to me through these many years, now that you have persevered in being fond of me....

Do not be anxious about my happiness, my dear friend, but pray for me, that I maybe enabled
to do what is right under all circumstances; and then it cannot fail to be well with me, whether
to outward observation I am what the world calls happy or not.

Give my affectionate love to Lord Dacre, and thank him for all his goodness to me and mine.
I send my blessing to the girls. I have written to B----. God bless you all, my kind friends,
and make life and its vicissitudes minister to your happiness hereafter.

You will hear of me, dear Granny, for the girls will write to me, and I shall answer them,
and you will remember, whenever you think of me, how gratefully and affectionately I must

                              Ever remain yours,
                                                           FANNY BUTLER.

    [Lady Dacre saw much trouble in store for me in my intemperate
    expression of feeling on the subject of slavery in America, and
    repeatedly warned me with affectionate solicitude to moderate, if
    not my opinions, the vehement proclamation of them. She was wise and
    right, as well as kind in her advice.]

                    [Extract from a letter of Miss Sedgwick's.]

                                        STOCKBRIDGE, October 26th, 1842.

You have no doubt heard and lamented the death of our dear friend, Dr. Channing. Dead he is
not; he lives, and will live in the widespreading life he has communicated. He passed the summer
at Lenox, occupying with his family your rooms at the hotel. We passed some hours of every
day together. He enjoyed our lovely hill country with the freshness of youth, his health was
invigorated, and his mind freer, and his spirits more buoyant than I ever knew them; he endured
more fatigue than he had been able to encounter since he travelled in Switzerland fifteen years
ago. His affectionateness, purity, simplicity--a simplicity so perfect that it seemed divine--surrounded
his greatness with an atmosphere of light and beauty. His life has been a most prosperous one,
no storms without, and a heavenly calm within. His last work in his office was a discourse
which he delivered in our village church on the 1st of August, on the emancipation of the slaves
in the British West Indies. I shall send it to you, and pray mark the prophetic invocation
with which it concludes. You should have seen the inspired expression of his intellectual brow,
and the earnest, spiritual look that seemed to penetrate the clouds that hang over the eternal
world and to reflect its light. On the Sundays of his sojourn with us he had domestic worship
in our houses, and his last service was in that apartment where his beloved friend Follen officiated....

Eliza Follen is recovering the elasticity of her mind. Time can, I think, do all things, since
it has dissipated that horrible image of the burning steamer in which her husband perished,
that was ever before her. She is publishing his Memoirs, and, among other things, she read
me some patriotic songs which he wrote in Sand's time in Germany; they were in the boldest
tone of insurrection, and were, of course, proscribed and suppressed. She had heard her husband
occasionally hum a stanza or two of them, and he had once written out a single one for her
which she found in her work-basket. This she transmitted to his mother in Germany, and with
this clue alone the mother obtained the rest; and eloquent outbreakings they are of a spirit
glowing with freedom and humanity....

I have passed lately a day at our State Lunatic Asylum. On my first going there, in the evening
the physician invited me into the dancing-hall, where some sixty of the patients were assembled.
The two musicians were patients, one utterly demented, incapable of any reasonable act except
playing a tune on his violin, which he did with accuracy. Except the doctor's children (as
beautiful as cherubs, and ministering angels they are), there were no sane persons among the
dancers. "There," said the physician, "is a homicide; there, a poor girl who went crazy the
day after her brother drowned himself, and who fancies herself that brother; there, the King
of England," etc. They were all dancing with the utmost decorum and regularity. They attend
chapel on a Sunday without disturbance; they were all (among them maniacs who had been for
half a score of years chained in dungeons of our common gaols) "clothed," and, if "not in their
right mind," comfortable and cheerful; they all had plants in their rooms and books on their
tables. Much depends on individual character, and the physician is, as you would expect, a
man of the highest moral power, and the very embodiment of the spirit of benevolence, and if
poetry and painting had laid their heads together to give him a fitting form, they could have
done nothing better than nature has. My heart was ready to burst with gratitude. Who can say
the world does not move some forward steps?

                                    CLARENDON HOTEL, November 6th, 1842.
  DEAR GRANNY,

You know that it is now determined that we do not sail by the next steamer....

Dearest Granny, do not you, any more than I do, reckon which love is best worth having, of
young or old love; for all love is inestimable, and should be gratefully rendered thanks for.
There is something charming and pathetic in the profusion with which the young love; it is
touching, as one of the magnificent superabundances, one of the generous extravagances, of
their prodigal time of life. But the love of the old is as precious as the beggared widow's
mite; and in bestowing it they know what they give, from a store that day by day diminishes.
The affections of the young are as sudden and soft, as bright and bounteous, as copious and
capricious as the showers of spring; the love of the old is the one drop in the cruse, which
outlasts the journey through the desert.

You may perhaps see in the papers a statement of the disastrous winding up of the season at
Covent Garden, or rather its still more disastrous abrupt termination. After our all protesting
and remonstrating with all our might against my father's again being involved in that Heaven-forsaken
concern, and receiving the most positive and solemn assurances from those who advised him into
it for the sake of having his name at the head of it that no responsibility or liability whatever
should rest upon or be incurred by him; and that if the thing did not turn out prosperously,
it should be put an end to, and the theatre immediately closed;--they have gone on, in spite
of night after night of receipts below the expenses, and now are obliged suddenly to shut up
shop, my poor father being, as it turns out, personally involved for a considerable sum.

This, as you will well believe, is no medicine for his malady. I spend every evening with him,
and generally see him in the morning besides. These last few days he suffers less acute pain,
but complains more of debility, and hardly leaves his sofa, where he lies silent, with his
eyes closed, apparently absorbed in painful sensations and reflections. Yet, though he neither
speaks to nor looks at me, he likes to have me there; and, as Horace Twiss said, "to hear the
scissors fall" now and then, by way of companionship; and certainly derives some comfort from
the mere consciousness of my presence.

My sister has gone to Brighton for a few days, her health having quite given way, what with
hard work and harder worry. She returns on Monday, but it is extremely doubtful whether she
will resume her performances at all, so that I fear the expectations of the clan Cavendish
will be disappointed.

She did act most charmingly in the "Matrimonio Segreto." In point of fact, her comic acting
is more perfect than her tragic, although there are not in it, and naturally cannot be, the
same striking exhibitions of dramatic power; but it is smoother, more even, better finished.

You must get Lady Callcott's "Scripture Herbal." Lady Grey lent it me, and I read it with great
pleasure. It is an interesting, graceful, and learned work, which she has illustrated very
exquisitely. There is something very sweet and soothing in the idea of last thoughts having
been thus devoted to what is loveliest in nature and holiest in religion.

God bless you, dear Granny. Give my love to the lasses, and my affectionate "duty" to my lord;
and believe me

                              Your loving grandchild,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Our departure for America was indefinitely postponed, and the
    American nurse I had brought to England with my children left me and
    returned home alone.]

                             THE CLARENDON, Monday, November 28th, 1842.
  MY DEAREST GRANNY,

I duly delivered your message, and am desired to tell you that a house is being looked for
for us in your neighborhood, and that, as soon as one is found that we think you will approve
of, it will be taken. Moreover, I am desired to add that the expensive reputation of the Clarendon
is very much exaggerated.... We have been here a fortnight to-day, and I think there is every
probability of our being here at least a fortnight longer, even if we get away then.... My
father suffers less acutely these last few days, but his debility appears to increase with
the decrease of his positive pain....

My sister returned from Brighton to-day, completely set up again; she is to go on with her
performances till Christmas, when the whole concern passes into the hands of Mr. Bunn, who
perhaps is qualified to manage it.

I think I should like to act with my sister during this month, in order to secure their salaries
to the actors, to make up the deficit which now lies at the door of my father's management,
to put a good benefit into his poor pocket, to give rather a more cheerful ending to my sister's
theatrical career, and, though last, not least, for the pleasure and fun of acting with her.
Don't you think we should have good houses? and wouldn't you come and see us?...

God bless you, dear Granny.

                              Ever your affectionate
                                                                F. A. B.

                                      THE CLARENDON, December 1st, 1842. The horrible mess in which
everybody is mixed up who has anything to do with Covent Garden, and in
which she is so deeply involved, renewed her annoyances and vexations
immediately on her arrival in town; but I passed the evening with her
yesterday, and she did not seem the worse for work or worry, for she
sang, for her own pleasure and that of her guests, the whole evening....

Give my kind remembrances to all your people, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY. Was this right?

The houses at Covent Garden are quite full on my sister's nights, but deplorably empty on the
others, I believe. I speak from hearsay, for I have not been into the theatre since the terrible
business of the late break-up there, and do not think I shall even see her last performances,
for I have no means of doing so; I can no longer ask for private boxes, as during my father's
management, of course, nor indeed would it be right for me to do so on her nights, because
they all let very well; and as for paying for one, or even for a seat in the public ones, I
have not a single farthing in the world to apply to such a purpose.... So you see, my dear,
I am in no case to treat myself to seats at the play, either private or public.

Adelaide is still pretty well. The night before last was her benefit; she had a very fine house,
and sang "Norma," and the great scene from "Der Freyschütz," and "Auld Robin Gray;" and yesterday
evening she seemed very tired, but she had people to dinner and to tea nevertheless....

Certainly one had need believe in something better than one sees, or at any rate than I see
just now; for such petty selfishnesses and despicable aims, pursued with all the energy and
eagerness which should be bestowed upon the highest alone; such cheating, tricking, swindling,
lying, and slandering, are enough to turn any Christian cat's stomach....

I must tell you two things about Miss Hall that have given me such an insight into the delights
of the position of an English governess as I certainly never had before. When first she joined
us here at the Clarendon, Anne was still with us, and she being always accustomed to take her
meals with the children, and yet of course not a proper companion for Miss Hall, we thought
that till the nurse went to America we would request the governess to dine with us. On Anne's
departure, I signified to the head waiter that from that time Miss Hall would take her dinner
with the children; whereupon, with a smirk and sniff of the most insolent disdain, and an air
of dignity that had been hurt, but was now comforted, the bloated superior servant replied,
"Well, ma'am, to be sure, it always was so in them famullies where I have lived; the governess
never didn't eat at the table." The fact is natural, and the reason obvious, but oh! my dear,
the manner of the fat, pampered porpoise of a man-menial was too horrid. Then, on going for
a candle into Miss Hall's room one evening, I found she had been provided with tallow ones,
and, upon remonstrating about it with the chambermaid, she replied (with a courtesy at every
other word to me), "Oh, ma'am, we always puts tallow for the governesses."

                    Good-bye, dear. God bless you.
                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      CRANFORD HOUSE, January 8th, 1843.
  DEAREST HAL,

I am spending two days at Cranford--you know, I believe, where I mean, old Lady Berkeley's
place.... I came to get the refreshment of the country; old Lady Berkeley is very kind to me,
and I like her daughters, Lady Mary particularly. I came down yesterday (Saturday), and shall
return early to-morrow, for on Wednesday the children are to have a party of their little friends,
and I am making a Christmas-tree for them (rather out of date), and expect to be exceedingly
busy both to-morrow and Tuesday in preparing for their amusement.

My father does not suffer nearly as much pain as he did a short time ago, but his strength
appears to me to be gradually diminishing....

    [Our return to America being once more indefinitely postponed, we
    now took a house in Upper Grosvenor Street, close to Hyde Park, to
    which we removed from the Clarendon, my sister residing very near
    us, in Chapel Street, Grosvenor Square.]

                 26, UPPER GROSVENOR STREET, Wednesday, March 1st, 1843.

Thank you, my dear T----, for your attention to our interests and affairs.... It seems to me
that to have to accept the conviction of the unworthiness of those we love must be even worse
than to lay our dearest in the earth, for we may believe that they have risen into the bosom
of God. However, each human being's burden is the one whose weight must seem the heaviest to
himself, and He alone who lays them on proportions them to our strength and enables us to walk
upright beneath them....

                    [Extract from a letter from Miss Sedgwick.]

                                              NEW YORK, March 3rd, 1843.

The great topic with us just now is the trial of Mackenzie, of whom, as the chief actor in
the tragedy of the "Somers," you must have heard. Some of your journals cry out upon him, but,
as we think, only the organs of that hostile inhuman spirit that bad minds try to keep alive
on both sides of the water. His life has been marked with courage and humanity; all enlightened
and unperverted, I may say all sane opinion with us, is in his favor. After the most honorable
opinion from the Court of Inquiry, he is now under trial by court-martial, demanded by his
friends to save him from a civil suit. S----, the father of the Ohio mutineer, is a man of
distinguished talent, of education, and head of the War Department, but a vindictive and unscrupulous
man. He is using every means to ruin Mackenzie, to revenge the death of a son, Heaven-forsaken
from the beginning of his days, and whose maturest acts (he died at nineteen) were robbing
his mother's jewel-case and stealing money from his father's desk. My nephew is acting as Mackenzie's
counsel, and his wife, a Roman wife and mother, is a friend of mine....

I heard a story the other day, "a true one," that I treasured for you as racy, as characteristic
of slavery and human nature. A most notoriously atrocious, dissolute, hellish slave-owner died,
and one of his slaves--an old woman--said to a lady, "Massa prayed God so to forgive him! Oh,
how he prayed! And I am afraid God heard him; they say He's so good."

                               UPPER GROSVENOR STREET, April 17th, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

I have executed your commission with regard to two of the books you desired me to get, but
the modern Italian work, published in 1840, in Florence, and the "Mariana" of 1600, I am very
much afraid I shall not be able to procure; the first because it would be necessary to send
to Florence for it, which could very easily be done, but then I shouldn't be here to receive
it; and the second, the copy of "Mariana," of the edition you specify, because Bohn assures
me that it is extremely rare, having been suppressed on account of the king-killing doctrines
it inculcates, and the subsequent editions being all garbled and incorrect. As you particularly
specified that of 1600, of course I would not take any other, and shall still make further
attempts to procure that, though Panizzi, the librarian of the British Museum, and Macaulay,
who are both friends of mine, and whom I consulted about it, neither of them gave me much encouragement
as to my eventual success. The "Filangieri" and Buchanan will arrive with me. I would send
them to G---- A----, but that, as we return on the 4th of May, I think there is every reason
to expect that we shall be in America first.

So much for your commission. With regard to your complaint that I give you nothing to do, I
think you will have found that fault amended in my last communication, wherein I request you
to accept my father's power of attorney, and undertake to watch over his interests in the New
Orleans Bank....

As for people's comments on me or my actions, I have not lived on the stage to be cowardly
as well as bold; and being decidedly bold, "I thank God," as Audrey might say, that I am not
cowardly, which is my only answer to the suggestion of "people saying," etc.

For a year and a half past I have been perfectly wretched at our protracted stay in Europe,
and as often as possible have protested against our prolonged sojourn here, and all the consequences
involved in it. This being the case, "people" attributing our remaining here to me troubles
me but little, particularly as I foresaw from the first that that must inevitably be the result
of our doing so.

I seldom read the newspapers, and therefore have not followed any of the details of this Mackenzie
trial. The original transaction, and his own report of it, I read with amazement; more particularly
the report, the framing and wording of which appeared to me utterly irreconcilable with the
fact of his having written, as Lord Ashburton informed me, a very pleasing book, of which certainly
the style must have been very different. He, Lord Ashburton, spoke of him as though he knew
him, and gave him the same character of gentleness and single-mindedness that you do.

Although our return to America will be made under circumstances of every possible annoyance
and anxiety, it gives me heartfelt pleasure to think I shall soon see all my good friends there
again, among whom you and yours are first in my regard....

Butler Place is to be let, if possible, and at any rate we are certainly not to go back to
it; whereat my poor little S---- cries bitterly, and I feel a tightening at the heart, to think
that the only place which I have known as a home in America is not what I am to return to....
The transfer of that New Orleans stock by my father to me--I mean the law papers necessary
for the purpose--cost £50 sterling. England is a dear country many ways.

Ellsler is in London now, and, I am assured by those who know, diviner than ever. I think her
gone off both in looks and dancing. That rascal W---- has robbed her of the larger portion
of her earnings. What a nice lover to have!

Believe me ever

                              Yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                        April 15th 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

You must not scold if there are letters missing in my words this week, for I have enough to
do and to think of, as you well know, to put half the letters of the alphabet out of my head
for the next twelvemonth....

Immediately after breakfast on Saturday I went down on my knees and packed till Emily came
to walk with me, and packed after I came in till it was time to go shopping and visiting. I
went to bid the L----'s good-bye; we dined with the Procters, and had a pleasant dinner: Mr.
and Mrs. Grote, Rogers, Browning, Harness and his sister. In the evening I went to Miss Berry's,
where Lady Charlotte Lindsay and I discoursed about you, and she pitied you greatly for having,
upon the top of all your troubles, forgotten your keys....

Sunday morning I packed instead of going to church, and, in fact, packed the blessed livelong
day, with an interval of rest derived from an interminable visit from Frederick Byng (alias
Poodle). Yesterday my father and Victoire (my aunt), and Adelaide and E---- (who, to my infinite
joy, came home on Saturday), dined with us. My father was better, I think, than the last evening
we were with him, though, of course, a good deal out of spirits. Victoire was pretty well,
but quite surprised and mortified at hearing that I would not suffer her to pack my things,
for fear of its fatiguing her; and told me how she had been turning in her mind her best way
of contriving to be here packing all day, and home in Charlotte Street in time to give my father
his dinner. She is Dall's own sister!

Yesterday I completed, with Emily's assistance (which nearly drove me mad), the packing of
the great huge chest of books, boxes, etc., and she and I walked together, but it was bitter
cold and ungenial, regular beasterly wind. (Mrs. Grote says she invented that name for it,
and, for reasons which will be obvious to you, I gave it up to her without a blow.) In the
afternoon I went shopping with Adelaide, and then flew about, discharging my own commissions.

In the evening our "first grand party of the season came off;" nearly two hundred people came,
and seemed, upon the whole, tolerably well amused. Adelaide and Miss Masson and I sang, and
Benedict played, and it all went off very well. There were six policeman at the door, and Irish
Jack-o'-lanterns without count; "the refreshment table was exceedingly elegantly set out" by
Gunter--at a price which we do not yet know....

I dread our sea-voyage for myself, for all sorts of physical reasons; morally, I dare say I
shall benefit from a season of absolute quiet and the absence of all excitement. The chicks
are well; they are to go down to Liverpool on Saturday, in order to be out of the way, for
we leave this house on Monday, and their departure will facilitate the verifying of inventories
and all the intolerable confusion of our last hours. Mrs. Cooper, as well as Miss Hall, will
go with them to Liverpool, and I have requested that, instead of staying in the town, they
may go down to Crosby Beach, six miles from it, and wait there for our arrival. This is all
my history. I am in one perpetual bustle, and I thank Heaven for it; I have no leisure to think
or to feel....

I beg leave to inform you that Miss Hall came to my party in a most elegant black satin dress,
with her hair curled in profuse ringlets all over her head.

God bless you, my dear Hal. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                             Thursday, April 27th, 1843.
  DEAREST HAL,

You ask how it goes with me. Why, I think pretty much as it did with the poor gentleman who
went up in the flying machine t'other day, which, upon some of his tackle giving way, began,
as he describes, to "turn round and round in the air with the most frightful velocity." My
condition, I think, too, will find the same climax as his, viz. falling in a state of senselessness
into a steam-packet. If the account be true, it was a very curious one. As for me, I am absolutely
breathless with things to do and things to think of.... Still, I get on (like a deeply freighted
ship in a churning sea, to be sure), but I do make some way, and the days do go by, and I am
glad to see the end of this season of trial approaching, for all our sakes.

Any one would suppose I was in great spirits, for I fly about, singing at the top of my voice,
and only stop every now and then to pump up a sigh as big as the house, and clear my eyes of
the tears that are blinding me. Occasionally, too, a feeling of my last moments here, and my
leave-taking of my father and sister, shoots suddenly through my mind, and turns me dead sick;
but all is well with me upon the whole, nevertheless.

Adelaide was in great health and spirits on Monday night, and sang for us, and seemed to enjoy
herself very much, and gave great delight to everybody who heard her. She sang last night again
at Chorley's, but I thought her voice sounded a little tired. To be sure, in those tiny boxes
of rooms, the carpets and curtains choke one's voice back into one's throat, and it just comes
out beyond one's teeth, with a sort of muffled-drum sound. Thus far, dearest Hal, yesterday.
To-day, before I left my dressing-room, I got your present. Thank you a thousand times for
the pretty chain [a beautiful gold chain, which, together with a very valuable watch, was stolen
from me in a boarding-house in Philadelphia, almost immediately on my return there], which
is exquisite, and will be very dear. Yet, though I found the "fine gold," the empty page of
letter-paper on each side of it disappointed me more than it would have been grateful to express;
but when I came down to breakfast I found your letter, and was altogether happy.... I was wearing
my watch again, for I found the risk and inconvenience of always carrying it about very tiresome,
but I had it on an old silver chain that I have had for some years. Yours is prettier even
than my father's, and I love to feel it round my neck.

You say you hope my sister will be brave on the occasion of our parting, and not try my courage
with her grief. I will answer for her. I am sure she will be brave. I know of no one with more
determination and self-control than she has....

The secret of helping people every way most efficiently is to stand by and be quiet and ready
to do anything you may be asked to do. This is the only real way to help people who have any
notion of helping themselves.

On Monday evening we had our first party, which went off exceedingly well. On Tuesday morning
Emily and I walked together, and I packed till lunch, after which I drove out with Adelaide,
shopping for her, and doing my own do's. In the evening I went to my father, whom I found in
most wretched spirits, but not worse in health. He has determined, I am thankful to say, not
to see the children again before they go, which I think is very wise. After leaving him, I
went to a party at our friend Chorley's, where dear Mendelssohn was, and where I heard some
wonderful music, and read part of "Much Ado about Nothing" to them. Yesterday Emily came, and
we walked together, and I packed and did commissions all day. Our second party took place in
the evening, and we had all our grandee friends and fine-folk acquaintances....

God bless you, dear Hal. Emily is waiting for me to go out walking with her.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                             26, UPPER GROSVENOR STREET.
  MY DEAR CHARLES GREVILLE,

I send you back Channing's book, with many thanks. The controversial part of his sermons does
not satisfy me. No controversy does; no arguments, whether for or against Christianity, ever
appear to me conclusive; but as I am a person who would like extremely to have it demonstrated
why two and two make four, you can easily conceive that arguments upon any subject seldom seem
perfectly satisfactory to me. As for my convictions, which are, I thank God, vivid and strong,
I think they spring from a species of intuition, mercifully granted to those who have a natural
incapacity for reasoning, i.e. the whole female sect. And, talking of them, I do not like Dryden,
though I exclaim with delight at the glorious beauty and philosophical truth of some of his
poetry; but oh! he has nasty notions about women. Did you ever see Correggio's picture of the
Gismonda? It is a wonderful portrait of grief. Even Guercino's "Hagar" is inferior to it in
the mere expression of misery. Knowing no more of the story years ago than I gathered from
a fine print of Correggio's picture, I wrote a rhapsody upon it, which I will show you some day.

The "Leaf and the Flower" is very gorgeous, but it does not touch the heart like earnest praise
of a virtue, loved, felt, and practised; and Dryden's "Hymns to Chastity" would scarcely, I
think, satisfy me, even had I not in memory sundry sublime things of Spenser, Dante, and Milton
on the same theme. Thank you for both the books. Each in its kind is very good.

                              I am yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [Mr. Greville had lent me a volume of Dr. Channing's "Sermons," and
    Dryden's "Fables," which I had never before read.]

                        26, UPPER GROSVENOR STREET, Saturday, April 29th.
  DEAREST GRANNY,

I send you back, with thanks, the critique on Adelaide. It is very civil and, I think, not
otherwise than just, except perhaps in comparing my sister at present to Pasta.

If genius alone were the same thing as genius and years of study, labor, experience, and practice,
genius would be a finer thing even than it is. My sister perpetually reminded me of Pasta,
and, had she remained a few years longer in her profession, would, I think, have equalled her.
I could not give her higher praise, for nobody, since the setting of that great artist, has
even remotely reminded me of her. My sister's voice is not one of the finest I have heard;
Miss Paton's is finer, Clara Novello's (the most perfect voice I ever heard) is finer. Adelaide's
real voice is a high mezzo-soprano, and in stretching it to a higher pitch--that of the soprano-assoluto--which
she has done with infinite pains and practice, in order to sing the music of the parts she
plays, I think she has impaired the quality, the perfect intonation, of the notes that form
the joint, the hinge, as it were, between the upper and middle voice; and these notes are sometimes
not quite true--at any rate, weak and uncertain. In brilliancy of execution, I do not think
she equals Sontag, Malibran, or Grisi; but there is in other respects no possible comparison,
in my opinion, between them and herself, as a lyrical dramatic artist; and Pasta is the only
great singer who, I think, compares with her in the qualities of that noble and commanding
order which distinguished them both. In both Madame Pasta and my sister the dramatic power
is so great as almost occasionally to throw their musical achievements, in some degree, into
the shade. But in their lyrical declamation there is a grandeur and breadth of style, and a
tragic depth of passion, far beyond that of any other musical performers I have known. In one
respect Adelaide had the promise of greater excellence than Pasta--the versatility of her powers
and her great talent for comedy.

How little her beautiful face was ever disfigured by her vocal efforts you have seen; and noted,
I know, that power of appealing to Heaven at once with her lustrous eyes and her soaring voice;
ending those fine, exquisite, prolonged shakes on the highest notes with that gentle quiver
of the lids which hardly disturbed the expression of "the rapt soul sitting in her eyes." She
has a musical sensibility which comprehends, in both senses of the word, every species of musical
composition, and almost the whole lyrical literature of Europe; in short, she belongs, by organization
and education, to the highest order of artists. But why--oh, why am I giving you a dissertation
on her and her gifts, for a purpose which will never again challenge her efforts or their exercise?
(Quite lately, one who knew and loved her well told me that Rossini had said of her, "To sing
as she does three things are needed: this"--touching his forehead,--"this"--touching his throat,--"and
this"--laying his hand on his heart;--"she had them all.")

I sometimes think, when I reflect upon the lives of theatrical artists, that they are altogether
unnatural existences, and produce--pardon the bull--artificial natures, which are misplaced
anywhere but in their own unreal and make-believe sphere. They are the anomalous growth of
our diseased civilizations, and, removed from their own factitious soil, flourish, I half believe,
in none other. Do not laugh at me, but I really do think that creatures with the temperaments
necessary for making good actors and actresses are unfit for anything else in life; and as
for marrying and having children, I think crossing wholesome English farm stock with mythological
cattle would furnish our fields with a less uncanny breed, of animals.

I wish some laws were made shutting up all the theatres, and only allowing two dramatic entertainments
every year: one of Shakespeare's plays, and one of Mozart's operas, at the cost of Government,
and as a national festivity. Now, I know you think I am quite mad, wherefore adieu.

                              I am ever yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                      UPPER GROSVENOR STREET, May, 1843.
  DEAREST GRANNY,

I am of Lord Dacre's mind, and think it wisest and best to avoid the pain of a second parting
with you. Light as new sorrows may appear to you, the heart--your heart--certainly will never
want vitality enough to feel pain through your kindly affections. God bless you, therefore,
my good friend, and farewell. For myself, I feel bruised all over, and numbed with pain; so
many sad partings have fallen one after another, day after day, upon my heart, that acuteness
of pain is lost in a mere sense of unspeakable, sore weariness; and yet these bitter last days
are to be prolonged.... God help us all! But I am wrong to write thus sadly to you, my kind
friend; and indeed, though from this note you might not think my courage what it ought to be,
I assure you it does not fail me, and, once through these cruel last days, I shall take up
the burden of my life, I trust, with patience, cheerfulness, and firm faith in God, and that
conviction which is seldom absent from my mind, and which I find powerful to sustain me, that
duty and not happiness is the purpose of life; and that from the discharge of the one and the
forgetfulness of the other springs that peace which Christ told His friends He gave, and the
world gives not, neither takes away. Let dear B---- come and see me; I shall like to look on
her bright, courageous face again. Give my affectionate love to Lord Dacre, and believe me

                    Ever gratefully and affectionately
                              Your grandchild,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                  UPPER GROSVENOR STREET, May 3rd, 1843.

Thank you, dearest Hal, for Sydney Smith's letter about Francis Horner: it is bolder than anything
I had a notion of, but very able and very amiable, and describes charmingly an admirable man.
There is one expression he--Sydney Smith--applies to Horner that struck me as strange--he speaks
of "important human beings" that he has known; and, I cannot tell why, but with all my self-esteem
and high opinion of human nature and its capabilities in general, the epithet "important" applied
to human beings made me smile, and keeps recurring to me as comical. It must have appeared
much more so to you, I should think, with your degraded opinion of humanity.

You ask how our second party went off. Why, very well. It was much fuller than the other, and
in hopes of inducing people to "spread themselves" a little, we had the refreshments put into
my drawing-room; but they still persisting in sticking (sticking literally) all in the room
with the piano, which rather annoyed me, because I hate the proximity of "important human beings,"
I came away from them, and had a charming quiet chat in the little boudoir with Lord Ashburton
and Lord Dacre, during which they discussed the merits of Channing, and awarded him the most
unmitigated praise as a good and great man. It is curious enough that in America the opponents
of Dr. Channing's views perpetually retorted upon him that he was a clergyman, a mere man of
letters, whose peculiar mode of life could not possibly admit of his having large or just,
or, above all, practical political knowledge and ideas, or any opinions about questions of
government that could be worth listening to; whereas these two very distinguished Englishmen
spoke with unqualified admiration of his sound and luminous treatment of such subjects, and,
instancing what they considered his best productions, mentioned his letter to Clay upon the
annexation of Texas, even before his moral and theological essays.

Our company stayed very late with us, till near two o'clock; and upon a remark being made about
the much smaller consumption of refreshments than on the occasion of our first party, D----,
our butler, very oracularly responded, "Quite a different class of people, sir;" which mode
of accounting for the more delicate appetite of our more aristocratic guests, made with an
ineffable air of cousinship to them all, sent me into fits of laughing.

You ask me what I shall have to do from Monday till Wednesday, to fill up my time and keep
my thoughts from drowning themselves in crying. I shall leave this house after breakfast for
the Clarendon. I have a great many small last articles to purchase, and shall visit all my
kindred once more. Then, too, the final packing for "board ship" will take me some time, and
I have some letters to write too. I dine with Lady Dacre on Monday; they are to be alone except
us and E---- and my sister. I shall leave them at eight o'clock to go and sit with my father
till ten, his bed-time; and then return to Chesterfield Street [Lord Dacre's]. As for Tuesday--Heaven
alone knows how I shall get through it.

On Thursday last we dined with Sydney Smith, where we met Lord and Lady Charlemont, Jeffrey,
Frederick Byng, Dickens, Lady Stepney, and two men whom I did not know,--a pleasant dinner;
and afterwards we went to Mrs. Dawson Damer's,--a large assembly, more than half of them strangers
to us....

On Friday morning Adelaide and E---- and we breakfasted with Rogers, to meet Sydney Smith,
Hallam, and his daughter and niece, the United States Minister, Edward Everett, Empson, and
Sir Robert Inglis. After breakfast I went to see Charles Greville, who is again laid up with
the gout, and unable to move from his sofa. We dined with my sister, who had a large party
in the evening; and as the hour for breaking up arrived, and I saw those pleasant kindly acquaintances
pass one after another through the door, I felt as if I was watching the vanishing of some
pleasant vision. The nearest and dearest of these phantasmagoria are yet round me; but in three
days the last will have disappeared from my eyes, for who can tell how long? if not forever!

All day yesterday I was extremely unwell, but packed vehemently....

Charles Young, who is a most dear old friend of mine, and dotes upon my children, came to see
them off, and went with them to the railroad. S---- begged for some of her grandfather's hair,
but that he might not be told it was for her, for fear of grieving him!

This is the last letter you will get from me written in this house. Victoire, quite tired out
with packing, is lying asleep on the sofa, and poor dear Emily sits crying beside me.

                              Yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                               HALIFAX WHARF, Wednesday, May 17th, 1843.
  MY DEAR FRIEND,

When I tell you that yesterday, for the first time, I was able to put pen to paper, or even
to hold up my head, and that even after the small exertion of writing a few lines to my father
I was so exhausted as to faint away, you will judge of the state of weakness to which this
dreadful process of crossing the Atlantic reduces your very robustious grandchild.

It is now the 17th of May, and we have been at sea thirteen days, and we are making rapid way
along the coast of Nova Scotia, and shall touch at Halifax in less than an hour. There we remain,
to land mails and passengers, about six hours; and in thirty-six more, wind and weather favoring
us across the Bay of Fundy, we shall be in Boston. In fifteen days! Think of it, my dearest
Granny! when thirty used to be considered a rapid and prosperous voyage.

My dear friend, how shall I thank you for those warm words of cheering and affectionate encouragement
which I received when I was lying worn out for want of sleep and food, after we had been eight
days on this dreadful deep? My kind friend, I do not want courage, I assure you; and God will
doubtless give me sufficient strength for my need: but you can hardly imagine how deplorably
sad I feel; how poor, who lately was so rich; how lonely, who lately was surrounded by so many
friends. I know all that remains to me, and how the treasure of love I have left behind will
be kept, I believe, in many kind hearts for me till I return to claim it. But the fact is I
am quite exhausted, body and mind, and incapable of writing, or even thinking, with half the
energy I hope to gather from the first inch of dry land I step upon. Like Antæus, I look for
strength from my mother, the Earth, and doubt not to be brave again when once I am on shore.

The moment I saw the dear little blue enamel heart I exclaimed, "Oh, it is Lady Dacre's hair
in it!" But tears, and tears, and nothing but tears, were the only greeting I could give the
pretty locket and your and dear B----'s letters.

My poor chicks have borne the passage well, upon the whole--sick and sorry one hour, and flying
about the deck like birds the next....

Our passage has been made in the teeth of the wind, and against a heavy sea the whole way.
We have had no absolute storm; but the tender mercies of the Atlantic, at best, are terrible.
Of our company I can tell nothing, having never left my bed till within the last three days.
They seem to be chiefly English officers and their families, bound for New Brunswick and the
Canadas. The ship stops, and to the perpetual flailing of the paddles succeeds the hissing
sound of the escaping steam. We are at Halifax. I send you this earliest news of us because
you will be glad, I am sure, to get it.

Give my love to my dear lord; my blessing and a kiss to dear B----. I will write to her from
New York, if possible. God bless you, my dear friend, and reward you for all your kindness
to me, and comfort and make peaceful the remainder of your earthly pilgrimage. I can hardly
hold my pen in my hand, or my head up; but am ever your grateful and affectionate

                                                                  FANNY.

                                  PHILADELPHIA, Tuesday, May 23rd, 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

We landed in Boston on Friday morning at six o'clock, and almost before I had drawn my first
breath of Yankee air Elizabeth Sedgwick and Kate had thrown their arms round me.

You will want to know of our seafaring; and mine truly was miserable, as it always is, and
perhaps even more wretched than ever before. I lay in a fever for ten days, without being able
to swallow anything but two glasses of calves'-foot jelly and oceans of iced water. At the
end of this time I began to get a little better; though, as I had neither food, nor sleep,
nor any relief from positive sea-sickness, I was in a deplorable state of weakness. I just
contrived to crawl out of my berth two days before we reached Halifax, where I was cheered,
and saddened too, by the sight of well-known English faces. I had just finished letters to
my father, E----, and Lady Dacre, for the Hibernia, which was to touch there the next morning
on her way home, and was sitting disconsolate with my head in my hands, in a small cabin on
deck, to which I had been carried up from below as soon as I was well enough to bear being
removed from my own, when Mr. Cunard, the originator of this Atlantic Steam Mail-packet enterprise,
whom I had met in London, came in, and with many words of kindness and good cheer, carried
me up to his house in Halifax, where I rested for an hour, and where I saw Major S----, an
uncle of my dear B----, and where we talked over English friends and acquaintances and places,
and whence I returned to the ship for our two days' more misery, with a bunch of exquisite
flowers, born English subjects, which are now withering in my letter-box among my most precious
farewell words of friends.

The children bore the voyage as well as could be expected; sick one half hour, and stuffing
the next; little F---- pervading the ship from stem to stern, like Ariel, and generally presiding
at the officers' mess in undismayed she-loneliness.

Your friend Captain G---- was her devoted slave and admirer.... I saw but little of the worthy
captain, being only able to come on deck the last four days of our passage; but he was most
kind to us all, and after romping with the children and walking Miss Hall off her legs, he
used to come and sit down by me, and sing, and hum, and whistle every imaginable tune that
ever lodged between lines and spaces, and some so original that I think they never were imprisoned
within any musical bars whatever. I gave him at parting the fellow of your squeeze of the hand,
and told him that as yours was on my account, mine was on yours. He left us at Boston to go
on to Niagara.

Our ship was extremely full, and there being only one stewardess on board, the help she could
afford any of us was very little.... While in Boston I made a pilgrimage to dear Dall's grave:
a bitter and a sad few minutes I spent, lying upon that ground beneath which she lay, and from
which her example seemed to me to rise in all the brightness of its perfect lovingness and
self-denial. The oftener I think of her, the more admirable her life appears to me. She was
undoubtedly gifted by nature with a temperament of rare healthfulness and vigor, which, combined
with the absence of imagination and nervous excitability, contributed much to her uniform cheerfulness,
courage, and placidity of temper; but her self-forgetfulness was most uncommon, her inexhaustible
kindliness and devotedness to every creature that came within her comfortable and consolatory
influence was "twice-blessed," and from her grave her lovely virtues seemed to call to me to
get up and be of good cheer, and strive to forget myself, even as perfectly as she had done....
How bitter and dark a thing life is to some of God's poor creatures!

I have told you now all I have to tell of myself, and being weary in spirit and in body, will
bid you farewell, and go and try to get some sleep. God bless you, my beloved friend; I am
very sad, but far from out of courage. Give dear Dorothy my affectionate love.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      PHILADELPHIA, Tuesday, 30th, 1843.
  MY DEAR F----,

We are all established in a boarding-house here, where my acquaintances assure me that I am
very comfortable; and so I endeavor to persuade myself that my acquaintances are better judges
of that than I am myself. It is the first time in my life that I have ever lived in any such
manner or establishment; so I have no means of trying it by comparison; it is simply detestable
to me, but compared with more detestable places of the same sort it is probably less so. "There
are differences, look you!" ...

I am sure your family deserve to have a temple erected to them by all foreigners in America;
for it seems to me that you and your people are home, country, and friends to all such unfortunates
as happen to have left those small items of satisfaction behind them. The stranger's blessing
should rest on your dwellings, and one stranger's grateful blessing does rest there....

                              Believe me, yours most truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

Please to observe that the charge of 13s. 8d. is for personal advice, conferences, and tiresome
morning visits; and if you make any such charge, I shall expect you to earn it. 6s. 4d. is
all you are entitled to for anything but personal communication.

    [This postscript, and the beginning of the letter, were jesting
    references to a lawyer's bill, amounting to nearly £50, presented to
    me by a young legal gentleman with whom we had been upon terms of
    friendly acquaintance, and whom we had employed, as he was just
    beginning business, to execute the papers for the deed of gift I
    have mentioned, by which my father left me at his death my earnings,
    the use of which I had given up to him on my marriage for his
    lifetime.

    Our young legal gentleman used to pay us the most inconceivably
    tedious visits, during which his principal object appeared to be to
    obtain from us every sort of information upon the subject of all and
    sundry American investments and securities. Over and over again I
    was on the point of saying "Not at home" to these interminably
    wearisome visitations, but refrained, out of sheer good nature and
    unwillingness to mortify my visitant. Great, therefore, was our
    surprise, on receiving a bill of costs, to find every one of these
    intolerable intrusions upon our time and patience charged, as
    personal business consultations, at 13s. 8d. The thing was so
    ludicrous that I laughed till I cried over the price of our friend's
    civilities. On paying the amount, though of course I made no comment
    upon the price of my social and legal privileges, I suppose the
    young gentleman's own conscience (he was only just starting in his
    profession, and may have had one) pricked him slightly, for with a
    faint hysterical giggle, he said, "I dare say you think it rather
    sharp practice, but, you see, getting married and furnishing the
    house is rather expensive,"--an explanation of the reiterated
    thirteens and sixpences of the bill, which was candid, at any rate,
    and put them in the more affable light of an extorted wedding
    present, which was rather pleasant.]

                                           PHILADELPHIA, June 4th, 1843.
  DEAREST GRANNY,

You will long ere this have received my grateful acknowledgments of your pretty present and
most kind letter, received, with many tears and heart-yearnings, in the middle of that horrible
ocean. I will not renew my thanks, though I never can thank you enough for that affectionate
inspiration of following me on that watery waste, with tokens of your remembrance, and cheering
that most dismal of all conditions with such an unlooked-for visitation of love.

I wrote to you from Halifax, where, on the deck of our steamer, your name was invoked with
heartfelt commendations by myself and Major S----. That was a curious conversation of his and
mine, if such it could be called; scarcely more than a breathless enumeration of the names
of all of you, coupled indeed with loving and admiring additions, and ejaculations full of
regret and affection. Poor man, how I did pity him! and how I did pity myself!

I have just written to our B----, and feel sad at the meagre and unsatisfactory account which
my letter contains of me and mine; to you, my excellent friend, I will add this much more....
But I shall forbear saying anything about my conditions until they become better in themselves,
or I become better able to bear them. God bless you and those you love, my dear Lady Dacre.
Give my affectionate "duty" to my lord, and believe me ever your gratefully attached

                                                                F. A. B.

                                          PHILADELPHIA, June 26th, 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Your sad account of Ireland is only more shocking than that of the newspapers because it is
yours, and because you are in the midst of all this wild confusion and dismay. How much you
must feel for your people! However much one's sympathy may be enlisted in any public cause,
the private instances of suffering and injustice, which inevitably attend all political changes
wrought by popular commotion, are most afflicting.

I hardly know what it is reasonable to expect from, or hope for, Ireland. A separation from
England seems the wildest project conceivable; and yet, Heaven knows, no great benefit appears
hitherto to have accrued to the poor "earthen pot" from its fellowship with the "iron" one.
As for hoping that quiet may be restored through the intervention of military force, at the
bayonet's point,--I cannot hope any such thing. Peace so procured is but an earnest of future
war, and the victims of such enforced tranquillity bequeath to those who are only temporarily
quelled, not permanently quieted, a legacy of revenge, which only accumulates, and never goes
long unclaimed and unpaid. England seems to me invariably to deal unwisely with her dependencies;
she performs in the Christian world very much the office that Rome did in the days of her great
heathen supremacy--carry to the ends of the earth by process of conquest the seeds of civilization,
of legislation, and progress; and then, as though her mission was fulfilled, by gradual mismanagement,
abuse of power, and insolent contempt of those she has subjugated, is ejected by the very people
to whom she had brought, at the sword's point, the knowledge of freedom and of law. It is a
singular office for a great nation, but I am not sure that it is not our Heaven-appointed one,
to conquer, to improve, to oppress, to be rebelled against, to coerce, and finally to be kicked
out, videlicet, these United States.

But now to matters personal.... The intense heat affects me extremely; and not having a horse,
or any riding exercise, the long walks which I compel myself to take over these burning brick
pavements, and under this broiling sun, are not, I suppose, altogether beneficial to me....

I went to church yesterday, and Mr. F---- preached an Abolition sermon. This subject seems
to press more and more upon his mind, and he speaks more and more boldly upon it, in spite
of having seen various members of his congregation get up and leave the church in the middle
of one of his sermons in which he adverted to the forbidden theme of slavery. Some of these,
who had been members of the church from its earliest establishment, and were very much attached
to him, expressed their regret at the course they felt compelled to adopt, and said if he would
only give them notice when he intended to preach upon that subject they would content themselves
with absenting themselves on those occasions only, to which his reply not unnaturally was,
"Why, those who would leave the church on those occasions are precisely the persons who are
in need of such exhortations!"--and of course he persevered.

I think it will end by his being expelled by his congregation. It will be well with him wherever
he goes; but alas for those he leaves! I expect to be forbidden to take S---- to church, as
soon as the report of yesterday's sermon gets noised abroad....

God bless you, dear. Good-bye. I am heavy-hearted, and it is a great effort to me to write.
What would I not give to see you! Love to dear Dorothy, when you see or write to her.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                           YELLOW SPRINGS, PENNSYLVANIA, July 6th, 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Here I am sitting (not indeed "on a rail"), but next thing to it, on the very hardest of wooden
benches; my feet on the very hardest bar of the very hardest wooden chair; and my cork inkstand,
of the most primitive formation, placed on a rough wooden table about a foot square, which
is not large enough to hold my paper (so my knees are my desk), and is covered with a coarse
piece of rag carpeting;--the whole, a sort of prison-cell furnishing. Before me stretches as
far as it can about a quarter of an acre of degraded uneven ground, enclosed in a dilapidated
whitewashed wooden paling, and clothed, except in several mangy bare patches, with rank weedy
grass, untended unwholesome shrubs, and untidy neglected trees.... Behind me is a whitewashed
room about fifteen feet by twelve, containing a rickety, black horse-hair sofa, all worn and
torn into prickly ridges; six rheumatic wooden chairs; a lame table covered with a plaid shawl
of my own, being otherwise without cloth to hide its nakedness or the indefinite variety of
dirt-spots and stains which defile its dirty skin. In this room Miss Hall and S---- are busily
engaged at "lessons." Briefly, I am sitting on the piazza (so-called) of one of a group of
tumble-down lodging-houses and hotels, which, embosomed in a beautiful valley in Pennsylvania,
and having in the midst of them an exquisite spring of mineral water, rejoice in the title
of the "Yellow Springs."

Some years ago this place was a fashionable resort for the Philadelphians, but other watering-places
have carried off its fashion, and it has been almost deserted for some time past; and except
invalids unable to go far from the city (which is within a three hours' drive from here), and
people who wish to get fresh air for their children without being at a distance from their
business, very few visitors come here, and those of an entirely different sort from the usual
summer haunters of watering-places in the country.

The heat in the city has been perfectly frightful.... On Sunday last a thermometer, rested
on the ground, rose to 130°, that being the heat of the earth; and when it was hung up in the
shade the mercury fell, but remained at 119°. Imagine what an air to breathe!... Late in the
afternoon last Sunday, a storm came on like a West Indian tornado; the sky came down almost
to the earth, the dust was suddenly blown up into the air in red-hot clouds that rushed in
at the open windows like thick volumes of smoke, and then the rain poured from the clouds,
steadily, heavily, and continuously, for several hours.

In the night the whole atmosphere changed, and as I sat in my children's nursery after putting
them to bed in the dark, that they might sleep, I felt gradually the spirit of life come over
the earth, in cool breezes between the heavy showers of rain. The next morning the thermometer
was below 70°, 30° lower than the day before.... This morning the children took me up a hill
which rises immediately at the back of the house, on the summit of which is a fine crest of
beautiful forest-trees, from which place there is a charming prospect of hill and dale, a rich
rolling country in fine cultivation--the yellow crops of grain, running like golden bays into
the green woodland that clothes the sides and tops of all the hills, the wheat, the grass,
the oats, and the maize, all making different checkers in the pretty variegated patchwork covering
of the prosperous summer earth.

The scattered farmhouses glimmered white from among the round-headed verdure of their neighboring
orchards. Nowhere in the bright panorama did the eye encounter the village, the manor-house,
and the church spire,--that picturesque poetical group of feudal significance; but everywhere,
the small lonely farmhouse, with its accompaniments of huge barns and outhouses, ugly the one
and ungainly the others, but standing in the midst of their own smiling well-cultivated territory,
a type of independent republicanism, perhaps the pleasantest type of its pleasantest features.

In the whole scene there was nothing picturesque or poetical (except, indeed, the blue glorious
expanse of the unclouded sky, and the noble trees, from the protection of whose broad shade
we looked forth upon the sunny world). But the wide landscape had a peaceful, plenteous, prosperous
aspect, that was comfortable to one's spirit and exceedingly pleasant to the eye.

After our walk we came down into the valley, and I went with the children to the cold bath--a
beautiful deep spring of water, as clear as crystal and almost as cold as ice, surrounded by
whitewashed walls, which, rising above it to a discreet height, screen it only from earthly
observers. No roof covers the watery chamber but the green spreading branches of tall trees
and the blue summer sky, into which you seem to be stepping as you disturb the surface of the
water. Into this lucid liquid gem I gave my chickens and myself, overhead, three breathless
dips--it is too cold to do more,--and since that I have done nothing but write to you.

You ask what is said to Sydney Smith's "petition." It is thought that Pennsylvania will ultimately
pay, and not repudiate, but it will be some time first. God bless you, my dear Hal. I have
not been well and am miserably depressed, but the country always agrees excellently with me.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, Sunday, 9th, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

After last Sunday's awful heat, it became positively impossible to keep the children any longer
in Philadelphia; and they were accordingly removed to the Yellow Springs, a healthy and pleasant
bathing-place at three hours' distance from the city. On Saturday morning their nurse, the
only servant we have, thought proper to disapprove of my deportment towards her, and left me
to the maternal delights of dressing, washing, and looking after my children during that insufferable
heat. Miss H---- was entirely incapacitated, and I feared was going to be ill, and I have reason
to thank Heaven that I am provided with the constitution that I have, for it is certain that
I need it. On Sunday night a violent storm cooled the atmosphere, and on Monday morning the
nurse was good enough to forgive me, and came back: so that the acme of my trial did not last
too long. On Tuesday the children were removed to the country, and though the physician and
my own observation assured me that F---- required sea-bathing, it is an unspeakable relief
to me to see her out of the city, and to find this place healthy and pleasant for them. The
country is pretty, the air pure, the baths delightful; and my chicks, thank God, already beginning
to improve in health and spirits.

As for the accommodations, the less said about them the better. We inhabit a sort of very large
barn, or barrack, divided into sundry apartments, large and small; and having gleaned the whole
house to furnish our drawing-room, that chamber now contains one rickety table, one horse-hair
sofa that has three feet, and six wooden chairs, of which it may be said that they have several
legs among them; but I must add that we have the whole house to ourselves, and our meals are
brought to us from the "Great Hotel" across the street,--privileges for which it behoves me
to be humbly thankful, and so I am. If the children thrive I shall be satisfied; and as for
accommodation, or even common comfort, my habitation and mode of life in our Philadelphia boarding-house
have been so far removed from any ideas of comfort or even decency that I ever entertained,
that the whitewashed walls, bare rooms, and tumble-down verandas of my present residence are
but little more so.... I suppose there was something to like in Mr. Webster's speech, since
you are surprised at my not liking it; but what was there to like? The one he delivered on
the laying of the foundation-stone of the monument (on Bunker's Hill, near Boston) pleased
me very much indeed; I thought some parts of it very fine. But the last one displeased me utterly....
Pray send me word all about that place by the sea-side, with the wonderful name of "Quoge."
My own belief is that the final "e" you tack on to it is an affected abbreviation for the sake
of refinement, and that it is, by name and nature, really "Quagmire."

                    Believe me always
                              Yours truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                        YELLOW SPRINGS, July 12th, 1843.
  DEAR GRANNY,

The intelligence contained in your letter [of the second marriage of the Rev. Frederick Sullivan,
whose first wife was Lady Dacre's only child] gave me for an instant a painful shock, but before
I had ended it that feeling had given place to the conviction that the contemplated change
at the vicarage was probably for the happiness and advantage of all concerned. The tone of
B----'s letter satisfied me, and for her and her sister's feeling upon the subject I was chiefly
anxious. About you, my dearest Granny, I was not so solicitous; however deep your sentiment
about the circumstance may be, you have lived long and suffered much, and have learned to accept
sorrow wisely, let it come in what shape it will. The impatience of youth renders suffering
very terrible to it; and the eager desire for happiness which belongs to the beginning of life
makes sorrow appear like some unnatural accident (almost a personal injury), a sort of horrid
surprise, instead of the all but daily business, and part of the daily bread of existence,
as one grows by degrees to find that it is.

His daughter's feeling about Mr. Sullivan's marriage being what it is, the marriage itself
appears to me wise and well; and I have no doubt that it will bring a blessing to the home
at the vicarage and its dear inmates. Pray remember me most kindly to Mr. Sullivan, and beg
him to accept my best wishes for his happiness, and that of all who belong to him; the latter
part of my wish I know he is mainly instrumental in fulfilling himself. May he find his reward
accordingly!

Of myself, my dear friend, what shall I tell you? I am in good health, thank God! and as much
good spirits as inevitably belong to good health and a sound constitution in middle life....

The intense heat of the last month had made both my children ill, and a week ago they were
removed to this place, called the Yellow Springs, from a fine mineral source, the waters of
which people bathe in and drink. Round it is gathered a small congregation of rambling farm-houses,
built for the accommodation of visitors. The country is pretty and well cultivated, and the
air remarkable for its purity and healthiness; and here we have taken lodgings, and shall probably
remain during all the heat of the next six weeks, after which I suppose we shall return to town.

I wish you could see my present locale. The house we are in is the furthest from the "Hotel"
(as it is magnificently called), and is a large, rambling, whitewashed edifice, with tumble-down
wooden piazzas (verandas, as we should call them) surrounding its ground-floor. This consists
of one very large room, intended for a public dining-room, with innumerable little cells round
it, all about twelve feet by thirteen, which are the bedrooms. One of these spacious sleeping-apartments,
opening on one side to the common piazza and on the other to the common eating-room, is appropriated
to me as a "private parlor," as it is called; and being at present, most fortunately, the only
inmates of this huge barrack, we have collected into this "extra exclusive" saloon all the
furniture that we could glean out of all the other rooms in the house; and what do you think
we have got? Two tiny wooden tables, neither of them large enough to write upon; a lame horse-hair
sofa, and six lame wooden chairs. As the latter, however, are not all lame of the same leg,
it is quite a pretty gymnastic exercise to balance one's self as one sits by turns upon each
of them, bringing dexterously into play all the different muscles necessary to maintain one's
seat on any of them. It makes sitting quite a different process from what I have ever known
it to be, and separates it entirely from the idea usually connected with it, of rest. But this
we call luxury, and, compared with the condition of the other rooms (before we had stripped
them of their contents), so it undoubtedly is. The walls of this boudoir of mine are roughly
whitewashed, the floor roughly boarded, and here I abide with my chicks. The decided improvement
in their health and looks and spirits, since we left that horrible city, is a great deal better
than sofas and armchairs to me, or anything that would be considered elsewhere the mere decencies
of life; and having the means of privacy and cleanliness, my only two absolute indispensables,
I take this rather primitive existence pleasantly enough. This house is built at the foot of
a low hill, the sides of which are cultivated; while the immediate summit retains its beautiful
crest of noble trees, from beneath which to look out over the wide landscape is a very agreeable
occupation towards sunset.

Chester County, as this is called, is the richest, agriculturally speaking, in Pennsylvania;
and the face of the country is certainly one of the comeliest, well-to-do, smiling, pleasant
earth's faces that can be seen on a summer's day; the variety of the different tinted crops
(among them the rich green of the maize, or Indian corn, which we have not in England), clothing
the hill-sides and running like golden bays into the green forest that once covered them from
base to summit, and still crowns every highest point, forms the gayest coat of many colors
for the whole rural region.

The human interest in the landscape is supplied not by village, mansion, parsonage, or church,
but by numerous small isolated farm-houses, their white walls gleaming in the intense sunlight
from amidst the trim verdure of their orchards, and their large barns and granaries surveying
complacently far and wide the abundant harvests that are to be gathered into their capacious
walls. The comfort, solidity, loneliness, and inelegance, not to say ugliness, of these rural
dwellings is highly characteristic, the latter quality being to a certain degree modified by
distance; the others represent very pleasingly, in the midst of the prosperous prospect, the
best features of the institutions which govern the land--security, freedom, independence.

There is nothing visibly picturesque or poetical in the whole scene; nothing has a hallowed
association for memory, or an exciting historical interest, or a charm for the imagination.
But under this bright and ever-shining sky the objects and images that the eye encounters are
all cheerful, pleasing, peaceful, and satisfactorily suggestive of the blessings of industry
and the secure repose of modest, moderate prosperity.

Dearest Granny, I had not intended to cross my letter to you; but the young ones will decipher
the scrawl for you, and I flatter myself that you will not object to my filling my paper as
full as it will hold. These four small pages, even when they are crossed, make but a poor amount
of communication compared with the full and frequent personal intercourse I have enjoyed with you.

What a shocking mess you are all making of it in Ireland just now! I hear too that you are
threatened with bad crops. Should this be true, I do not wonder at my lord's croaking, for
what will the people do?

The water we bathe in here is strongly impregnated with iron, and so cold that very few people
go into the spring itself. I do: and when the thermometer is at 98° in the shade, a plunge
into water below 50° is something of a shock. B---- would like it, and so do I. Will you give
my affectionate remembrance to my lord, and

                    Believe me always, dear Granny,
                              Your attached
                                                                F. A. B.

                                        YELLOW SPRINGS, 19th July, 1843.

And so, my dear T----, you are a "tied-by-the-leg" (as we used, in our laughing days, to call
the penniless young Attachés to Legations)? I am heartily sorry, as yours is not diplomatic
but physical infirmity; and would very readily, had I been anywhere within possible reach,
have occupied the empty arm-chair in your library, and "charmed your annoys" to the best of
my ability.... Dear me! through how long a lapse of years your desire that I would undertake
a translation of Schiller's "Fiesco" leads me! When I was between sixteen and seventeen years
old, I actually began an adaptation of it to the English stage; but partly from thinking the
catastrophe unmanageable, and from various other motives, I never finished it: but it was an
early literary dream of mine, and you have recalled to me a very happy period of my life in
reminding me of that labor of love. You perhaps imagine from this that I understood German,
which I then did not; my acquaintance with the German drama existing only through very admirably
executed literal French translations, which formed part of an immense collection of plays,
the dramatic literature of Europe in innumerable volumes, which was one of my favorite studies
in my father's library.

I am not, however, at all of your opinion, that "Fiesco" is the best of Schiller's plays. I
think "Don Carlos," and "William Tell," and especially "Wallenstein," finer; the last, indeed,
finest of them all. My own especial favorite, however, for many years (though I do not at all
think it his best play) was "Joan of Arc." As for his violation of history in "Wallenstein"
and "Mary Stuart," I think little of that compared with the singular insensibility he has shown
to the glory of the French heroine's death, which is the more remarkable because he generally,
above most poets, especially recognizes the sublimity of moral greatness; and how far does
the red pile of the religious and patriotic martyr, surrounded by her terrified and cowardly
English enemies and her more basely cowardly and ungrateful French friends, transcend in glory,
the rose-colored battle-field apotheosis Schiller has awarded her! Joan of Arc seems to me
never yet to have been done justice to by either poet or historian, and yet what a subject
for both! The treatment of the character of Joan of Arc in "Henry VI." is one reason why I
do not believe it to be wholly Shakespeare's. He never, it is true, writes out of the spirit
of his time, neither was he ever absolutely and servilely subject to it--for example, giving
in Shylock the delineation of the typical Jew as conceived in his day, think of that fine fierce
vindication of their common humanity with which he challenges the Christian Venetians, Solanio
and Solarino--"Hath not a Jew eyes?" etc.

By-the-by, did you ever hear a whisper of a suggestion that Joan of Arc was not burned? There
is such a tradition, that she was rescued, reprieved, and lived to a fine old age, though rather
scorched.

And now, at the fag end of my paper, to answer your question about Leonora Lavagna. I think,
beyond all doubt, the sentiment Schiller makes her express as occurring to her at the altar
perfectly natural. When the character and position of Leonora are considered, her love for
Fiesco--however, chiefly composed of admiration for his person and more amiable and brilliant
personal qualities--must inevitably have derived some of its strength from her generous patriotism
and insulted family pride; and nothing, in my opinion, can be more probable than that she should
have see in him the deliverer of Genoa, at the moment when every faculty of her heart and mind
was absorbed in the contemplation of all the noble qualities with which she believed him endowed.

The love of different women is, of course, made up of various elements, according to their
natural temperament, mental endowments, and educated habits of thought; and it seems to me
the sort of sentiment Leonora describes herself as feeling towards Fiesco at the moment of
their marriage is eminently characteristic of such a woman. So much for the Countess Lavagna.

I think you are quite mistaken in calling Thekla a "merely ideal" woman; she is a very real
German woman--rarely perhaps, but to be found in all the branches of the Anglo-saxon tree,
in England certainly, and even in America.

To these subjects of very pleasing interest to me succeeds in your letter the exclamation elicited
by poor Mrs. D----'s misfortune, "Blessed are they who die in the Lord!" to which let me answer,
"Yea, rather, blessed are they who live in the Lord!" Our impatience of suffering may make
death sometimes appear the most desirable thing in all God's universe; yet who can tell what
trials or probations may be ordained for us hereafter? The idea that there "may be yet more
work to do," probably must be (for how few finish their task here before the night cometh when
"no man can work," as far as this world is concerned, at any rate!), is a frequent speculation
with me; so that whenever, in sheer weariness of spirit, I have been tempted to wish for death,
or in moments of desperation felt almost ready to seize upon it, the thought, not of what I
may have to suffer, but what I must have to do, i.e. the work left undone here, checks the
rash wish and rasher imagination, and I feel as if I must sit down again to try and work. But
weariness of life makes the idea of existence prolonged beyond death sometimes almost oppressive,
and it seems to me that there are times when one would be ready to consent to lie down in one's
grave and become altogether as the clods of the valley, relinquishing one's immortal birthright
simply for rest. To be sure you will answer that, for rest to be pleasurable, consciousness
must accompany it; but oh, how I should like to be consciously unconscious for a little while!--which
possibly may strike you as nonsense.

I dare say women are, as you say, like cats in a great many respects. I acknowledge myself
like one, only in the degree of electricity in my hair and skin; I never knew anybody but a
cat who had so much.

Thank you for the paper about Theodore Hook. I knew him and disliked him. He was very witty
and humorous, certainly; but excessively coarse in his talk and gross in his manners, and was
hardly ever strictly sober after dinner....

                                         PHILADELPHIA, August 4th, 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Indeed I am not spending my summer with my friends at Lenox, ... but boarding at a third-rate
watering-place about thirty miles from Philadelphia, where there is a fine mineral spring and
baths, remarkably pure and bracing air, and a pretty, pleasant country, under which combination
of favorable influences we have all improved very much, and dear little F---- looks once more
as if she would live through the summer, which she did not when we left Philadelphia. As for
our accommodations at this place, they are as comfortless as it is possible to imagine, but
that really signifies comparatively little.... I ride, and walk, and fish, and look abroad
on the sweet kindly face of Nature, and commune gratefully with my Father in heaven whenever
I do so; and the hours pass swiftly by, and life is going on, and the rapid flight of time
is a source of rejoicing to me.... I laughed a very sad laugh at your asking me if my watch
and chain had been recovered or replaced. How? By whom? With what? No, indeed, nor are they
likely to be either recovered or replaced. I offered, as a sort of inducement to semi-honesty
on the part of the thief or thieves, to give up the watch and pencil-case to whoever would
bring back my dear chain, but in vain. Had I possessed any money, I should have offered the
largest possible reward to recover it; but, as it is, I was forced to let it go, without being
able to take even the usual methods resorted to for the recovery of lost valuables. I will
now bid you good-bye, dearest Hal. I have no more to tell you; and whenever I mention or think
of that chain, I feel so sad that I hate to speak or move. I flatter myself that, were you
to see me now, you would approve highly of my appearance. I am about half the size I was when
last you saw me.

God bless you, dear. I am, therefore, only half yours,

                                                                  FANNY.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, August 15th, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

Yesterday, at three o'clock, I was told that we must all return to town by five, which accordingly
was accomplished, not without strenuous exertion and considerable inconvenience in making our
preparations in so short a time. I do not know in the least whether we are to remain here now
or go elsewhere, or what is to become of us....

I do not know the lines you allude to as mine, called "The Memory of the Past," and think you
must have written them yourself in your sleep, and then accused me of them, which is not genteel.
I have no recollection of any lines of my own so called. Depend upon it, you dreamt them. I
hope you had the conscience to make good verses, since you did it in my name. I have not supposed
you either "neglectful or dead." I knew you were at Quoge, which Mr. G---- reported to be a
very nice place....

You have misunderstood me entirely upon the subject of truth in works of fiction and art; and
I think, if you refer to my letter, if you have it, you will find it so. I hold truth sacred
everywhere, but merely lamented over Schiller's departure from it in the instance of "Joan
of Arc" more than in that of "Wallenstein."

It has been an annoyance to me to leave the Yellow Springs, independently of the hurried and
disagreeable mode of our doing so. I like the country, which is really very pretty, and I have
been almost happy once or twice while riding over those hills and through those valleys, with
no influences about me but the holy and consolatory ministerings of nature.

My activity of temperament and love of system and order (perhaps you did not know that I possessed
those last tendencies) always induce me to organize a settled mode of life for myself wherever
I am, no matter for how short a space of time, and in the absence of nervous irritation or
excitement, regular physical exercise, and steady intellectual occupation, always produce in
me a (considering all things) wonderfully cheerful existence; ... and my spirits, obedient
to the laws of my excellent constitution, rise above my mental and sentimental ailments, and
rejoice, like those of all healthy animals, in mere physical well-being....

Good-bye, dear T----. Remember me most kindly to S----; and

                              Believe me always yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, August 22nd, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

I am not sure that cordial sympathy is not the greatest service that one human being can offer
another in this woe-world. Certainly, without it, all other service is not worth accepting;
and it is so strengthening and encouraging a thing to know one's self kindly cared for by one's
kind, that I incline to think few benefits that we confer upon each other in this life are
greater, if so great....

The horrible heat, and the admonishing pallor that is again overspreading my poor children's
cheeks, has led to a determination of again sending them out of town; and I heard yesterday
that on Saturday next they are to go to the neighborhood of West Chester. The fact of going
out of town again is very agreeable to me on my own account, letting alone my sincere rejoicing
that my children are to be removed from this intolerable atmosphere; but all this packing and
unpacking which devolves upon me is very laborious and fatiguing, and the impossibility of
obtaining any settled order in my life afflicts me unreasonably....

Peccavi! The verses you mentioned are mine, and you certainly might have written much better
ones for me in your sleep, if you had taken the least pains. They were indited as many as twenty
years ago, and how Mr. Knickerbocker came possessed of them is a mystery to me....

I want you to do me a favor, which I have been thinking to ask you all this week past, and
was now just like to have forgotten. Will you ask John O'Sullivan if he would care to have
a review of Tennyson's Poems from me, for the Knickerbocker, and what he will give me for such
review? I am compelled to be anxious for "compensation." Send me an answer to this inquiry,
please; and believe me

                              Very truly yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

P.S.--Lord Morpeth is a lovely man, and I love him.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, August 25th, 1843.
  DEAR GRANNY,

A thousand thanks for your kind and comfortable letter, from the tone of which it was easy
to see that you were "as well as can be expected," both body and soul. Indeed, my dearest Granny,
it is true that we do not perceive half our blessings, from the mere fact of their uninterrupted
possession. Of our health this seems to me especially true; and it is too often the case that
nothing but its suspension or the sight of its deplorable loss in others awakens us to a sense
of our great privilege in having four sound limbs and a body free from racking torture or enfeebling,
wasting disease. As for me, what I should do without my health I cannot conceive. All my good
spirits (and I have a wonderful supply, considering all things) come to me from my robust physical
existence, my good digestion, and perfect circulation. Heaven knows, if my cheerfulness had
not a good tough root in these, as long as these last, it would fare ill with me; and I fear
my spiritual courage and mental energy would prove exceedingly weak in their encounter with
adverse circumstances, but for the admirable constitution with which I have been blessed, and
which serves me better than I serve myself....

On the tenth of next month I am going up to the dear and pleasant hill-country of Massachusetts,
to pay my friends a visit, which, though I must make it very short, will prove a most acceptable
season of refreshment to my heart and spirit, from which I expect to derive courage and cheerfulness
for the rest of the year, as I shall certainly not see any of them again till next spring,
for they are about two hundred and fifty miles away from me, which, even in this country of
quite unlimited space, is not considered exactly next-door neighborhood.

You ask after "the farm," which is much honored by your remembrance. It is let, and we are
at present living in a boarding-house in town, and I rather think shall continue doing so;
but I really do not know in the least what is to become of me from day to day....

I am grieved to hear of the affliction of the Greys. Pray remember me very affectionately to
Lady G. Her father's illness must be indeed a sore sorrow to her, devoted as she is to him.

My dear Granny, do not you be induced to croak about England. She may have to go through a
sharp operation or two; but, depend upon it, that noble and excellent constitution is by no
means vitally impaired, and she will yet head the nations of the earth, in all great and good
and glorious things, for a long time to come, in spite of Irish rows and Welsh consonants (is
there anything else in Wales? How funny a revolution must be without a vowel in it!) ... I
believe that great and momentous changes are impending in England; and when I suggest among
them as possible future events the doing away with the law of primogeniture, hereditary legislation,
and the Church establishment, of course you will naturally say that I think England is going
to the dogs faster even than you do. But I think England will survive all her political changes,
be they what they may, and, as long as the national character remains unchanged, will maintain
her present position among the foremost peoples of the world; with which important and impressive
prophecy comfort yourself, dear Granny.

We are going out of town, to which we returned a fortnight ago, to-morrow at half-past six
in the morning, and it is now past midnight, and I have every mortal and immortal thing to
pack with my own single pair of hands, which is Irish, Lord bless us! So good-night, dear Granny.

                              Believe me ever your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, August 25th, 1843.

You will pay no more, dear Hal, for this huge sheet of paper, being single, I believe, than
for its half; and I do not see why I should cheat myself or you so abominably as by writing
on such a miserable allowance as the half sheet I have just finished to you.

Mr. Furness's abolition sermons have thinned his congregation a little--not much.... There
is no other Unitarian church in Philadelphia, where the sect is looked upon with holy horror,
pious commiseration, and Christian reprobation, but where, nevertheless, Mr. Furness's own
character is held in the highest esteem and veneration.

Your question about society here puzzles me a good deal, from the difficulty of making you
understand the absolute absence of anything to which you would give that name. I do not think
there is anything, either, which foreigners call société intime in Philadelphia. During a certain
part of the year certain wealthy individuals give a certain number of entertainments, evening
parties, balls, etc. The summer months are passed by most of the well-to-do inhabitants somewhere
out of the city, generally at large public-houses, at what are called fashionable watering-places.
Everybody has a street acquaintance with everybody; but I know of no such thing as the easy,
intimate society which you seem to think inevitably the result of the institutions, habits,
and fortunes in this country.

It does not strike me that social intercourse is easy at all here; the dread of opinion and
the desire of conformity seem to me to give a tone of distrust and caution to every individual
man and woman, utterly destructive of all freedom of conversation, producing a flatness and
absence of all interest that is quite indescribable. I have hitherto always lived in the country,
and mixing very little with the Philadelphians have supposed that the mere civil formality
at which my intercourse with most of them stops short would lead necessarily to some more intimate
intercourse if I ever lived in the city. I now perceive, however, that their communion with
each other is limited to this exchange of morning visits, of course almost exclusively among
the women; and that society, such as you and I understand it, does not exist here.

Yet, of course, there must be the materials for it, clever and pleasant men and women, and
I had sometimes thought, when I foresaw the probability of our leaving our country house and
establishing ourselves in the city, that I should find some compensation in the society which
I hoped I might be able to gather about me; ... but I am now quite deprived of any such resource
as any attempt of the kind might have produced, by my present position in a boarding-house,
where I inhabit my bedroom, contriving, for sightliness' sake, to sleep on a wretched sofa-bed
that my room by day may look as decent and little encumbered as possible; but where the presence
of wash-hand-stand and toilette apparatus necessarily enforces the absence of visitors, except
in public rooms open to everybody.... I have received a great many morning visits, and one
or two invitations to evening parties, but I do not, of course, like to accept civilities which
I have no means of reciprocating, and so I have as little to expect in the way of social recreation
as I think anybody living in a large town can have. So much for your inquiries about my social
resources in this country. Had I a house of my own in Philadelphia, I should not at all despair
of gradually collecting about me a society that would satisfy me perfectly well; but as it
is, or rather as I am, the thing is entirely out of the question.

Of the discomfort and disorder of our mode of life I cannot easily give you a notion, for you
know nothing of the sort, and, until now, neither did I. The absence of decent regularity in
our habits, and the slovenliness of our whole existence, is peculiarly trying to me, who have
a morbid love of order, system, and regularity, and a positive delight in the decencies and
elegancies of civilized life.

God bless you, dear.

                              Your affectionate
                                                                 FANNY.

                                     PHILADELPHIA, September 1st, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

I know not how long your letter had been in Philadelphia, because I have been out of town,
and in a place so difficult of access that letters are seldom forwarded thither without being
lost or delayed long enough to be only fit for losing.

I told you of our sudden removal from the Yellow Springs. In the succeeding fortnight, which
we spent in town, the children began again to droop and languish and grow pale, and it was
determined to send them into the country again: rooms have been accordingly hired for us three
miles beyond West Chester, which is seven miles from the nearest railroad station on the Columbia
railroad, altogether about forty miles from town, but for want of regular traffic and proper
means of conveyance an exceedingly tedious and unpleasant drive thence to the said farm. Here
there is indeed pure air for the children, and a blessed reprieve from the confinement of the
city; but so uncivilized a life for any one who has ever been accustomed to the usual decencies
of civilization, that it keeps me in a constant state of amazement.

We eat at the hours and table of these worthy people, and I am a little starved, as I find
it difficult to get up a dinner appetite before one o'clock in the day; and after that nothing
is known in the shape of food but tea at six o'clock. We eat with two-pronged iron forks; i.e.
we who are "sopisticate" do. The more sensible Arcadians, of course, eat exclusively with their
knives. The farming men and boys come in to the table from their work, without their coats
and with their shirt-sleeves rolled up above their elbows; and my own nursemaid, and the servant-of-all-work
of the house, and any visitors who may look in upon our hostess, sit down with us promiscuously
to feed; all which, I confess, makes me a little melancholy. It is nonsense talking about positive
equality; these people are sorry associates for me, and so, I am sure, am I for them.

To-day I came to town to endeavor to procure some of the common necessaries that we require:
table implements that we can eat with, and lights by which we may be able to pursue our occupations
after dark.

I read your speech with great pleasure; it was good in every way. I am glad you do not withdraw
yourself from the field of action where your like are so much wanted. I cannot give up my hope
and confidence in the institutions of your country; they are the expectation of the world;
and if the Americans themselves, by word or deed, proclaim their scheme of free government
a failure, it seems to me that the future condition of the human race is ominously darkened,
and that all endeavor after progress or improvement is a fruitless struggle towards an unattainable
end. But this is not so. Your people will yet prove it, and it will and must be through the
influence and agency of worthy men like yourself, to whom fitly belongs the task of rallying
this faithless people, flying from their standards in the great world-conflict. Call them back,
such of you as have voices that can be heard; for your nation is the vanguard of the race,
and if they desert their trust its degradation will be protracted for long years to come.

The despondency of some of your best men is deplorable, and the selfish discouragement in which
they withdraw from the fight, giving place to public evil for the sake of their personal quiet,
a fatal omen to the country. It is curiously unlike the spirit of Englishmen. Never, certainly,
were good men and true so needed anywhere as here at this moment, when the noblest principles
that men are capable of recognizing in the form of a government seem about to be cast down
from the rightful supremacy your fathers gave them, and the light of freedom which they kindled
to lighten the world extinguished in distrust and dismay.

God bless you and prosper you in every good work. Remember me most kindly to S----, and believe
me always

                              Yours very truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                      PHILADELPHIA, September 9th, 1843.

Your English is undoubtedly better than Cicero's Latin to me, my dear T----, inasmuch as I
understand the one and not the other. I shall not stop on my way through New York, on Monday,
nor my way back, except to spend a Sunday in your city, when I shall be very glad to see S----
and you.

I am disappointed at the uncertainty you express about being in Lenox while I am there.

Can you ascertain for me whether the Harpers, the New York publishers, would be willing to
publish a volume of Fugitive Poems for me, and would give me anything for them? If it is not
too much trouble to ascertain this, it would be doing me a great service....

I write in haste, but remain ever yours,

                                                                F. A. B.

  DEAR T----,

I shall not dine with you to-day for various, all good, reasons, and send you word to that
effect, simply because it would not be so civil, either to S---- or you, to leave my excuse
till the time when I should present myself.

I had hoped to have returned to Philadelphia with Mr. F---- this morning, but I am to remain
till after Thursday, when we were to have given a dinner to Macready. He called this morning,
however, and said he had another engagement for Thursday, so what will be done in the matter
of our proposed entertainment to him I know not.

I hope your eyes are not the worse for that hateful theatre last night. You cannot imagine
how that sort of thing, to which I was once so used, now excites and irritates my nerves. The
music, the lights, the noise, the applause, the acting, the grand play itself, "Macbeth,"--it
was all violent doses of stimulant; and I begin to think my mental constitution is like gunpowder,
only unignitable when in the water: I suppose that accounts for my affection for water, apart
from fishing.

I have got the greatest quantity of letters to write, and must begin upon Tennyson, so I shall
not want for occupation while I am kept here.

                              Yours ever truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                         NEW YORK, September 26th, 1843.
  DEAREST HAL,

I was up till past two o'clock last night, and up at 5.30 this morning: I have travelled half
the day, from Philadelphia to New York, and shopped the rest of the day, and am now steaming
up the Hudson to Albany, on my way to Lenox, where I am going to spend a few days with my friends
the Sedgwicks. Although I am very weary, and my eyes ache for want of sleep, I must write to
you before I go to bed; for once up in Berkshire, I shall have but little time to myself, and
I would not for a great deal that the steamer should go to England without some word from me
to you.... So here I am wandering up forlornly enough, with poor Margery for my attendant,
who appears to me to be in the last stage of a consumption, and to whom this little excursion
may perhaps be slightly beneficial, and will certainly be very pleasurable.... I shall in all
probability see none of the Sedgwicks again for a year....

I suppose, dear Hal, we are crossing the Tappan Zee (the broadest part of the Hudson River,
where its rapid current spreads from shore to shore into the dimensions of a wide lake), and
the boat rocks so much that I feel sick, and must leave off writing and go to bed, after all.
God bless you, dear. Good-night.

Dearest Hal, this letter, which I had hoped to finish on board the Hudson night-boat, was cut
short by my fatigue and the rocking of the vessel; and, as I expected, during my stay at Lenox
no interval of leisure was left me to do so....

I sprained my ankle slightly, jumping from off a fence; and though I have carefully abstained
from using my foot since I did so, it is still so weak that I am afraid of standing upon it
much, and must consequently abide the results (invariable with me) of want of exercise, headache,
sideache, and nervous depression and irritability. When I get to Philadelphia, if I am no better,
I will hire a horse for a little while, and shake myself to rights.

God bless you, dear Hal. Good-bye.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       PHILADELPHIA, October 10th, 1843.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

How much I thank you for your generosity to me! for the watch you are sending me, which I have
not yet received. I cannot value it more than I did that precious chain, the loss of which,
happening at a time when I was every way most unhappy, really afflicted me deeply.

I hope nothing will happen to this new remembrance of yours and token of your love. I shall
feel most anxious till it arrives, and then I think I shall sleep with it round my neck, so
great will be my horror of having it stolen from me in this wretched and disorderly lodging-house,
where, as it is, I am in perpetual misery lest I should have left any closet or drawer in my
bed-room unfastened, and where we are obliged to lock our sitting-room if we leave it for a
quarter of an hour, lest our property should be stolen out of it,--a state of anxious and suspicious
caution which is as odious as it is troublesome....

When I arrived in New York last Sunday morning on my return from Berkshire, and was preparing
to start for Philadelphia the next day, I found I was to stay in New York to meet and greet
Mr. Macready, who had just landed in America, and to whom we are to give an entertainment at
the Astor House, as we have no house in Philadelphia to which we can invite him....

My next errand, while I was out to-day, was to go and see a person who has thought proper to
go out of her mind about me. She is poor and obscure, the sister of a tailor in this town;
she had a little independence of her own, but lent it to the State of Pennsylvania, after the
fashion of Sydney Smith, and has lost it, or at any rate the income of it, which, after all,
is all that signifies to her, as she is no longer young and will probably not live to see the
State grow honest, which its friends and well-wishers confidently predict that it will.

This poor woman is really and positively mad about me, as I think you will allow when I tell
you that she is never happy when she sees me unless she has hold of my hand or my gown; that
she has bought a portrait of me by Sully, over which she has put a ducal coronet, as she says
I am the Duchess of Ormond! It is really a serious effort of good nature in me to go and see
her, for her crazy adoration of me is at once ludicrous and painful. But my visits are a most
lively pleasure to her--she thanks me for coming with the tears in her eyes, poor thing; and
it would be brutal in me to withhold from her a gratification apparently so intense, because
to afford it her is irksome and disagreeable to me. Her name is N----, and she told me to-day
(but that may have been only another demonstration of her craziness) that there was a large
disputed inheritance in Ireland left to heirs unknown of that name; that the true heirs could
not be found, and that she really believed she might be entitled to it if she only knew how
to set about establishing her right. She is the daughter of an English or Irish man, and her
family were well connected in England (I couldn't help thinking, while she was talking, of
your and my uncle John's dear Guilford). What a curious thing it would be if this poor, obscure,
old, ugly, half-insane woman were really entitled to such a property! She is tolerably well
educated too, a good French and Italian scholar, and a reader of obsolete books. She is a very
strange creature.

I forget whether I told you that I had taken Margery up to Lenox with me, in the hope that
the change of air and scene might be of benefit to her; but ever since her return she has been
ill in her bed, poor thing! and though the only servant-girl she had has left her, and she
is in the most forlorn and wretched condition possible, neither her mother nor her sisters
have been near her to help or comfort her--such is the Roman Catholic horror of a divorced
woman (for she has at length sued for and obtained her divorce from her worthless husband).
And so, I suppose, they will let her die, such being, it seems, their notion of what is right....
Poor woman! her life has been one entire and perfect misery....

God bless you, dear. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                        PHILADELPHIA, October 3rd, 1843.
  MY DEAR T----,

I have just received, by Harnden's Express, my Tennyson, which I had left at Lenox, and with
it your old note, written to me while I was yet there, which the conscientious folk sent me
down. It seems odd to read all your directions about my departure from the dear hill-country
and my arrival in New York. How far swept down the current of time already seem the pleasant
hours spent up there! You do not know how earnestly I desire to live up there. I do believe
mountains and hills are kindred of mine--larger and smaller relations, taller and shorter cousins;
for my heart expands and rejoices and beats more freely among them, and doubtless, in the days
which "I can hardly remember" (as Rosalind says of her Irish Rat-ship), I was a bear or a wolf,
or what your people call a "panter" (i.e. a panther), or at the very least a wild-cat, with
unlimited range of forest and mountain. [The forests and hill-tops of that part of Massachusetts
had, when this letter was written, harbored, within memory of man, bears, panthers, and wild-cats.]
That cottage by the lake-side haunts me; and to be able to realize that day-dream is now certainly
as near an approach to happiness as I can ever contemplate.

I am working at the Tennyson, and shall soon have it ready. Tell me, if you can, where and
how I am to send it to John O'Sullivan.

Thank you, my dear T----, for your and S----'s civility to C---- H----. His people are excellent
friends of mine, and you cannot conceive anything more disagreeable--painful to me, I might
say--than the mortification I felt in receiving him in my present uncomfortable abode, and
being literally unable to offer him a decent cup of tea.

It is an age since I saw Mr. G----, so can give you no intelligence of him. J---- C---- and
the O----s form my société intime. They come and sit with me sometimes of an evening, otherwise
mon chez moi is undisturbed and lonely enough. I walk a great deal every day, for the weather
is lovely, and the blessed blue sky an inexhaustible source of delight and enjoyment to me.

To-morrow I am obliged to go out to the farm upon business. I shall go on horseback (upon the
legs of my Tennyson article), and expect not only pleasure but profit from my old habitual
exercise; but I would a little rather not be going there at all.

I went all over our town house yesterday. It is a fine house, and has an excellent garden,
with quite large trees in it. It is let unfurnished for about half the price which such a house
in London would command. I confess it was rather a trial to return from looking at this large
house of--mine? to the "Maison Vauquier" (see Balzac's "Père Goriot") which we inhabit.

Thank you for your offer of helping me with my review. I could not possibly think of using
your eyes, precious and perilled as they are, instead of my own. I dare say I shall manage
with my own translated acquaintance with Æschylus and Homer. However, and at any rate, if I
find it necessary to cram, I will not do so by proxy.

Good-bye. Give my kindest love to S----.... How is Master C----? How is his voice? Has he worked
out that problem yet about that vexed question on which he threw so much light at your house,
and about which you were so tiresome? Seriously, that lad is a clever fellow; and I assure
you we perpetrated some pretty profound metaphysics between your house and the Astor Hotel
that wet Sunday evening.

                              Believe me yours truly,
                                                                F. A. B.

    [The young gentleman alluded to in the above letter, who was
    visiting the United States, and had brought letters of introduction
    to my friends in New York, was the son of an old Yorkshire family,
    among whom had existed for several generations a passionate desire
    to fly, and a firm conviction that they could invent a machine
    which would enable them to do so. The last I heard of that young
    Icarus above mentioned was from two of his friends and companions,
    the sons of Mrs. Norton, who, standing with me above the tremendous
    precipice called the Salto di Tiberio, which plunges from the edge
    of the rocks of Capri straight down into the Mediterranean, told me
    they had had all the difficulty in the world in preventing C----
    from launching forth upon his flying machine from that stupendous
    pier into mid air, and quite as infallibly mid ocean. With infinite
    entreaties they finally persuaded him to send forth his machine,
    unfreighted with human life, on its experimental trip. He did so,
    and his bird, turning ignominious somersaults on its way, at length
    found a perch, and folded its wings on a hoary rock-anchored tree
    that stretched out an arm of succor to it above the abyss, and
    there, perhaps, it still roosts; and elsewhere, perhaps, its author
    is pursuing other flights.]

                                PHILADELPHIA, Wednesday, May 15th, 1844.
  DEAR MRS. JAMESON,

My last letter to you was pretty nearly filled with dismal private affairs, and now, Heaven
knows, all residents in Philadelphia have a gloomy story to tell of public ones. We have had
fearful riots here last week between the low American population and the imported population
from Ireland, who have also taken the opportunity of the present anarchy and confusion to indulge
in violent exhibitions of their own special home-brewed feud of Protestant against Catholic.
A few nights ago there was a general mob-crusade against the Roman Catholic churches, several
of which, as well as various private dwellings, were burnt to the ground. The city was lighted
from river to river with the glare of these conflagrations--this city of "brotherly love;"
whole streets looking like pandemonium avenues of brass and copper in the lurid reflected light.
Your people have lost little of their agreeable combined facetiousness and ferocity, as I think
you will allow when I tell you that, while a large Catholic church was burning, the Orange
party caused a band of music to play "Boyne Water;" and when the cross fell from above the
porch of the building, these same Christian folk gave three cheers. "Where," I suppose you
exclaim, "were the civil authorities and military force?" All on the ground of action, compelled
to be idle spectators of these outrages, because they had no warrant to act, and could not
shoot down the Sovereign People, even while committing them, without the Sovereign People's leave.

The popular jealousy of power, which always exists more or less under republican institutions,
interferes not a little with the efficiency of an organized police or other abiding check upon
public effervescence. Rioters, therefore, in times of excitement have generally a fair start
of the law, and are able to accomplish plenty of mischief before they can be prevented, because
a powerful force of preventive police and municipal officers, invested with permanent authority,
are abominations in the eyes of a free and independent American citizen.

As, however, by a very wholesome law, the city pays for all damages committed by public violence
upon property, the whole population of the town will be taxed for the spree of these lively
gentry; and under the pressure of this salutary arrangement the whole militia turned out, all
the decent citizens organized themselves into patrols and policemen, and by the time the riot
had raged three days, and the city had incurred a heavy debt for burnt and pillaged property,
a stop was put to the disorder. Cannon were planted round all the remaining Catholic churches
to protect them; the streets were lined with soldiers; every householder was out on guard in
his particular district during the night, and by dint of effectual but, unfortunately, rather
tardy measures order has been restored.

My own affairs are far from flourishing, and I am heartily glad to have anything else to speak
of, little cheerful as the anything else may be....

I hope all is well with you. Geraldine is almost a woman now, I suppose. I think of you much
oftener than I write to you, and am

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                         May 20th, 1844.

No, my dearest Hal, the day is never long, but always short, even when I rise before six....
I have a vivid consciousness of an increased perception of the minor goods of existence, in
the midst of its greatest evils, and things that till now have been mere enjoyments to me now
appear to me in the light of positive blessings.

My delight in everything beautiful increases daily, and I now count and appreciate the innumerable
alleviations that life has in every twenty-four hours, even in its seasons of severest trial.

A spirit of greater thankfulness is often engendered by suffering itself; it is one of the
"sweet uses of adversity," and mitigates it immensely.

A beautiful flower was brought to me to-day; and while I remained absorbed in contemplating
it, it seemed to me a very angel of consolatory admonition.

God bless you, dearest friend. How full of sources of comfort He has made this lovely woe-world!

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   PHILADELPHIA, Sunday, June 9th, 1844.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

I am sure you will be sorry to hear of the accident which has befallen my poor little F----.
She fell last week over the bannisters of the stairs, and broke her arm. The fracture was fortunately
a simple one of the smaller bone of the arm, which, I suppose, in a little body of that sort,
can hardly be much more than gristle. She is doing well, and, as she appears to have escaped
all injury to the head, which was my first horrible apprehension, I have every reason to be
thankful that the visitation has not been more severe. The accident occasioned me a violent
nervous shock. I am now far from well myself, and I am pursued with debilitating feverish tendencies,
which I vainly endeavor to get rid of....

I am much puzzled, my dear Lady Dacre, what to say to you beyond this bulletin. My circumstances
do not afford any great variety of cheerful topics for correspondence, and the past and the
future are either painful or utterly uncertain.

I am studying German, in the midst of the small facilities for mental culture which my present
not very easy or happy position affords, and have serious thoughts of beginning to work at
Euclid, and trying to make myself something of a mathematician. Possibly some knowledge of
the positive sciences might be of use to me in my further dealings with the world; for the
proper comprehension and appreciation of and judicious commerce with which some element, either
natural or acquired, is undoubtedly wanting in me.

I have always wished very much that I had been made to study mathematics as a young person,
and considering that Alfieri betook himself to Greek at forty-eight, I see no very good reason
why I should not get at least as far as the pons asinorum at thirty-four.

I believe this latent hankering after mathematics has been a little fanned in me by reading
De Quincey's letters to a young man upon the subject of a late education, which have fallen
into my hands just now, and which so earnestly recommend the zealous cultivation of this species
of knowledge.

I hope Lord Dacre is well. Pray remember me to him very affectionately, and tell him that I
am afraid, in answer to his question, I must reply that the Americans in this part of the United
States do not at present appear over-scrupulous about paying their debts. Their demonstrations
towards England just now seem to me rather absurd. The "sensible" of the community (alas! nowhere
the majority, but here at this moment a most pitiful minority) are of course ashamed of, and
sorry for, what is going on; and, moreover, of course do not believe in a war. But I am afraid,
if the good sense of England does not keep this country out of a scrape, its own good sense
will hardly do it that good turn.

An American wrote to me the other day: "As for our calling ourselves a great people, I think
we are a people who, with the greatest possible advantages, have made the least possible use
of them; and if anything can teach these people what greatness is, it must be adversity."

Farewell, and God bless you, my dear Lady Dacre.

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          PHILADELPHIA, July 14th, 1844.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I am told that the newspapers in England have been filled with the severest comments upon the
late outbreaks of popular disorder in this city of "brotherly love."

About a month ago the town was lighted from one end to the other with the burning of Catholic
churches; and now, within the last week, the outrages have recommenced with more fury than
ever, because, for a wonder, the militia actually did fire upon the mob, who, unused to any
such demonstration of being in earnest on their part, had possessed themselves of cannon and
fire-arms, and would have exterminated the small body of militia which could be gathered together
at the first outbreak of the riot, but which is now backed by a very considerable force of
regular troops.

The disturbance is not in the city proper, but in a sort of suburb not subject to the municipal
jurisdiction of Philadelphia, but having a mayor and civil officers of its own.

The cause assigned for all these outrages is fear and hatred of the Roman Catholic Irish; and
there is no doubt an intensely bitter feeling between them and the low native population of
the cities; added to which, the Irish themselves do not fail to bring over their home feud,
and the old Orange spirit of bloody persecution joins itself to the dread of Popery, which
is becoming quite a strong feeling among the American lower classes.

It is absurd, and yet sad enough, that not six months ago "Repeal Unions"--Irish Repeal Unions--were
being formed all over this country in favor of, and sympathy with, the poor, oppressed Roman
Catholics in Ireland; "professional" politicians made their cause and England's oppression
of them regular popularity capital; writing and speechifying in the most violent manner, and
with the most crass ignorance, upon the subject of their wrongs and the tyranny they endured
from our government; and now Philadelphia flares from river to river with the burning of Roman
Catholic churches, and the Catholics are shot down in the streets and their houses pillaged
in broad daylight.

The arrest of several of the ringleaders of the mob, and the arrival of large numbers of regular
troops, have produced a temporary lull in the city; but the spirit of lawless violence has
been permitted to grow and strengthen itself in these people for some time past now; and of
course, as they were allowed, unchecked and unpunished, to set fire to the property of the
negroes, and to murder them without anybody caring what befell the persons or property of "damned
niggers," the same turbulent spirit is now breaking out in other directions, where it is rather
less agreeable to the respectable portion of the community, but where they will now find considerable
difficulty in checking it; and, of course, if it is to choose its own objects of outrage and
abuse, the respectable portion of the community may some day be disagreeably surprised by having
to take their turn with the poor Roman Catholic Irish and the poor American negroes. The whole
is a lamentable chapter of human weakness and wickedness, that would cast shame and scorn upon
republican institutions, if it were not that Christianity itself is liable to the same condemnation,
judged by some of its apparent results.

You ask me if I apportion my time among my various occupations with the same systematic regularity
as formerly. I endeavor to do so, but find it almost impossible.... I read but very little.
My leisure is principally given to my German, in which I am making some progress. I walk with
the children morning and evening; I still play and sing a little at some time or other of the
day, and write interminable letters to people afar off, who I wish were nearer. I walk before
breakfast with the children, i.e. from seven till eight. Three times a week I take them to
the market to buy fruit and flowers, an errand that I like as well as they do. The other three
mornings we walk in the square opposite this house. After breakfast they leave me for the morning,
which they now pass with their governess or nurse. For the last two months I have ridden every
day, but have unhappily disabled my horse for the present, poor fellow! by galloping him during
a sudden heavy rain-shower over a slippery road, in which process he injured one of his hip-joints,
not incurably, I trust, but so as to deprive me of him for at least three months. [My dear
and noble horse never recovered from this injury, but was obliged to be shot. He had been sold,
and I had ransomed him back by the publication of a small volume of poems, which gave me the
price demanded for him by the livery-stable keeper who had bought him; but the accident I mention
in this letter deprived me of him. He was beautiful and powerful, high-spirited and good-tempered,
almost a perfect creature, and I loved him very much.]

I shall now walk after breakfast, as, my rides being suppressed, my walks with the chicks are
not exercise enough for me. After that, I prepare for my German lesson (which I take three
times a week) and write letters. I take the children out again at half-past six, and at half-past
seven come in to my dinner; after dinner I go to my piano, and generally sit at it or read
until I go to bed, which I do early,--et voilà!

Almost all the people I know are out of town now, and I do not see a human creature; the heat
is intense and the air foul and stifling, and we are gasping for breath and withering away
in this city atmosphere....

God bless you, dear Hal.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [In the autumn of 1845 I returned to England, and resided with my
    father in Mortimer Street, Cavendish Square, until I went to Italy
    and joined my sister at Rome; a plan for my returning with my father
    to America having been entertained and abandoned in the mean time.]

  MORTIMER STREET, October 3d, 1845.

Heaven be praised, my American letters are finished!--eleven long ones, eleven shillings' worth.
I am sure somebody (but at this moment I don't rightly know who) ought to pay me eleven shillings
for such a batch of work. So now I have nothing to do but answer your daily calls, my dearest
Hal, which "nothing," as I write it, looks like a bad joke. If you expect me, however, to write
you a long letter on the heels of that heavy American budget, you deceive yourself, my dear
friend, and the truth is not in you.

In the first place, I have nothing to say except that I am well and intensely interested by
everything about me. I am very sorry to have neglected sending you "Arnold" [his Life, just
published at that time], but it shall be done this day.

London, with its distracting quantity of things to do, is already laying hold of me; and the
species of vertigo which I experience after my lonely American existence, at finding myself
once more overwhelmed with visits, messages, engagements, and endless notes to read and answer,
is pitiable. I feel as if I had been growing idiotic out there, my life here is such an amazing
contrast.

I had a visit yesterday from dear old Lady Charlotte Lindsay, who was exceedingly kind and
cordial indeed to me. We said many good words about you. After she was gone, the old Berry
sisters (who still hang on the bush) tottered in, and I felt touched to the heart by the affectionate
sympathy and kind goodwill exhibited towards me by these three very old and charming ladies.

I had a delightful dinner yesterday at Milman's, where I met Lady Charlotte again, Harness,
Lockhart, Empson, and several other clever pleasant people.

To-day I carried my last six American despatches myself to the post, and then trotted all the
way up to Horace Wilson's, to see him and my cousin Fanny, by way of exercise....

I am going to dine to-day with Sir Edward Codrington--the admiral, you know. He and his family
are old friends of mine; he has been here twice this week, sitting two hours at a time with
me, spinning long yarns about the battle of Navarino and all the to-do there was about it.
He actually brought me a heap of manuscript papers on the subject to look over, which, quite
contrary to my expectation, have interested me very much.

To-morrow, at three o'clock, my maid and I depart for the Hoo; as we go per coach, and the
distance is only twenty-five miles, I hope that journey won't ruin me.

My father has just come home from Brighton, instead of remaining there till Monday, as he had
intended; he said he felt himself getting fatigued, and therefore thought it expedient to come
away. He has caught a slight rheumatic pain in one of his shoulders, but otherwise seems well.
To-morrow I will send you another bulletin.

                              Your affectionate,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                         MORTIMER STREET, October, 1845.

Since beginning this letter, my beloved Hal, I have been reading Channing's sermon upon Dr.
Follen's death. It is, in fact, a sermon upon human suffering, in a paroxysm of which I was
when I began to write to you; and for a remedy took up this sermon, which has comforted me much.

Chorley was expressing to me, two days ago, his unbounded veneration for the character of Dr.
Follen, as it is faintly and imperfectly represented in the memoir which his wife published
of him. I knew that I had with me Channing's sketch of him in that sermon on human suffering,
and told Chorley that I would look for it for him. I found it yesterday, and merely read that
part of it towards the end which referred to Dr. Follen's character; and it is to that circumstance
that I attribute a dream I had last night, in which I sat devoutly at Arnold's feet, expressing
to him how earnestly I had desired the privilege of knowing him: he was surrounded by Channing,
Follen, and others whom I could not remember. In reading to-day the whole of that fine discourse
of Channing's, I was led to compare the great similarity of the expressions he uses, in speaking
of sceptics and scepticism, to those Arnold makes use of on the same subjects in his letters
to Lady Francis Egerton. For instance, "Scepticism is a moral disease, the growth of some open
or latent depravity; deliberate, habitual questionings of God's benevolence argue great moral
deficiency." Another thing that struck me was the resemblance between Dr. Arnold and Dr. Follen
in the matter of independent self-reliance. Channing says of the latter, "He was singularly
independent in his judgments. He was not only uninfluenced by authority, and numbers, and interest,
and popularity; but by friendship, and the opinions of those he most loved and honored. He
seemed almost too tenacious of his convictions."

Do you remember what Sydney Smith says of Francis Horner? This great firmness of opinion in
Arnold and Follen reminds me of it by contrast: "Francis Horner was a very modest person, which
men of great understanding seldom are. It was his habit to confirm his opinion by the opinions
of others, and often to form them from the same source."

                                        MORTIMER STREET, November, 1845.
  DEAR EMILY,

During that hour that we spent at Netley, the last few moments of which were made full of hopeful
thoughts by the passing away of the visible clouds from the visible sky, I could not but reflect
upon the glorious stability of things spiritual, contrasted with the mutability and evanescence
of things temporal. Our hearts, which are united by real bonds--the love of truth, the fear
of God, and the desire of duty--have remained so united through all these years of absence
and distance from each other; and when I thought of our former visit to Netley, I remembered
that nothing had failed me but that which could not be abiding and steadfast, for it was not good.

To tell you how thence my soul wandered to the eventual reclaiming of all who have strayed
from righteousness, and the possible reunion, in the immeasurable future, of souls which have
been sundered here because of sin, and the final redemption of all God's poor erring children,
would be to attempt to utter one of those rapid, deep, and ineffable actions of our spirits
which are too full of hope, of faith, and the holiest peace, for words to be meant to express them.

                                   MORTIMER STREET, Thursday, 6th, 1845.
  DEAREST HAL,

My father came home yesterday afternoon from Brighton. He said he was getting a little tired
of his work, and complained of a touch of rheumatism in his shoulder.... He is making arrangements
to read at Highgate next week. Harry Chester, some cousin or connection of Emily's, and a quondam
kind friend of mine, is at the head of some institution at Highgate, and has been in negotiations
with him for three readings at some public hall or lecture-room there. My father is to read
there three times, and is to dine each time at some friend's house. Mr. Chester very kindly
begged me to accompany him, and dine with them....

I dined at Sir Edward Codrington's yesterday, and was there introduced to a charmingly pretty
Mrs. Bruce, formerly Miss Pitt, one of the queen's maids-of-honor; and I assure you my edification
was considerable at some of her courtly experiences....

I believe Solomon says that "in the multitude of counsellors is safety;" it does not seem so
with me just now, for in my multitude of counsels and counsellors I find only utter bewilderment.

Until Monday I shall be at the Hoo, where you can address me, "To the care of Lord Dacre, the
Hoo, Welwyn, Herts."

God bless you, dearest Hal. Give my kind love to Dorothy.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The days were not yet, either in England or America, when a married
    woman could claim or hold, independently, money which she either
    earned or inherited. How infinite a relief from bitter injustice and
    hardship has been the legislation that has enabled women to hold and
    own independently property left to them by kindred or friends, or
    earned by their own industry and exertions. I think, however, the
    excellent law-makers of the United States must have been intent upon
    atoning for all the injustice of the previous centuries of English
    legislation with regard to women's property, when they framed the
    laws which, I am told, obtain in some of the States, by which women
    may not only hold bequests left to them, and earnings gained by
    them, entirely independent of their husbands; but being thus
    generously secured in their own rights, are still allowed to demand
    their maintenance, and the payment of their debts, by the men they
    are married to. This seems to me beyond all right and reason--the
    compensation of one gross injustice by another, a process almost
    womanly in its enthusiastic unfairness. It must be retrospective
    amends for incalculable former wrongs, I suppose.]

                                   MORTIMER STREET, November 17th, 1845.

When I consider that this is the third letter I write to you this blessed day, dear Hal, I
cannot help thinking myself a funny woman; and that if you are as fond of me as you pretend
to be, you ought to be much obliged to the "streak of madness" which compels me to such preposterous
epistolary exertions.

And so because the sea rages and roars against the coast at St. Leonard's, and appals your
eyes and ears there, my dearest Hal, you think we had better not cross the Atlantic now. But
the storms on that tremendous ocean are so local, so to speak, that vessels steering the same
course and within comparatively small distance of each other have often different weather and
do not experience the same tempests. Moreover, Mrs. Macready has just been here, who tells
me that her husband crossed last year rather earlier than I did, in October, and had a horrible
passage; and the last time I came to England we sailed on the 1st of December, and had a long
but by no means bad voyage. There is no certainty about it, though, to be sure, strong probability
of unfavorable weather at this season of the year....

I told you that I had got off dining at the L----s' to-day by pleading indisposition, which
is quite true, for I am very unwell. I shall remain dinnerless at home, which is no great hardship,
and one for which I dare say I shall be none the worse. My father talks of going to Brighton
this week, and then I shall scatter myself abroad in every direction....

My father leaves town on Wednesday, and as he is to be absent two or three weeks, I suppose
he will only return in time to sail.

I have written to Mrs. Grote to say I will come to Burnham on Thursday, and my present plan
is to remain there until Monday next, and probably then go to the Hoo. The Grevilles, Charles
and Henry, have been here repeatedly; they are both of them now gone out of town. I called
to-day on Mrs. O'Sullivan, and there I found Dr. Holland, with whom I had one more laugh upon
the subject of his never reaching Lenox after all dear Charles Sumner's efforts to get him
there. [Dr. Holland, while in America, had made various unsuccessful attempts to visit the
Sedgwick family in Berkshire, winding up with a failure more ludicrous than all the others,
under the guidance of his, their, and my friend, Charles Sumner....]

I have had a most affectionate note of welcome from Mrs. Jameson, and am rather in terror of
her advent, as I feel considerable awkwardness about her various late passages-at-arms with
my sister. Mrs. Macready came to see me this afternoon, and told me that she heard I was about
to return forthwith to America....

Now, dear, I think I have really done my duty by you to-day. God bless you. Give my affectionate
love to the "good angel" [Miss Wilson]. As for your "roaring sea," I only wish I was in it
just where you are (nowhere else, though). I am not well, and very much out of spirits; disgusted,
and, I have no doubt, disgusting; but, nevertheless,

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

Arnold's Christianity puzzles me a little. He justifies litigation between men and war between
nations. Whenever I set about carrying out my own Christianity I shall do neither; for I do
not believe either are according to Christ's law.

I called on the Miss Hamiltons to-day, and we talked "some" of you. I have had another most
affectionate note from Lizzie Mair, entreating me to go to Edinburgh. But oh! my dear Hal,
the money? Che vita!

                                  MORTIMER STREET, Thursday, 20th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

There is another thing that makes me pause about coming to Hastings--the time for my departure
for America will be drawing very near when I return to town on Monday from Mrs. Grote's, which
is the only visit that I shall have it in my power to pay....

Tuesday is the 25th. I must see my brother John again before I go. This will take two days
and one night, and my father talks of going down to Liverpool on the 2nd or 3rd, so that I
could only run down to Hastings for a few miserable hours, again to renew all the pain of bidding
you another farewell....

I left off here to get my breakfast. We have lowered the price and the quality of our tea,
in consequence of which, you see, my virtue and courage are also deteriorated [Miss S---- used
to say that a cup of good tea was virtue and courage to her], and this is why I feel I had
perhaps better not come to Hastings.

Thus far, my dearest Harriet, when your letter of the 19th--yesterday (you see I did look at
the date)--was brought to me. It is certainly most miserable to consider what horrible things
men contrive to make of the mutual relations which might be so blest. I do not know if I am
misled by the position from which I take my observations, but it seems to me that one of the
sins most rife in the world is the misuse, or disuse, of the potent and tender ties of relationship
and kindred.

With regard to coming to you, my dear Hal, I am much perplexed. I have made Mrs. Grote enter
into arrangements to suit me, which I do not think I ought now to ask her to alter. Old Rogers
is going down to Burnham, to be with me there, going and coming with me; and with what I feel
I ought and must do to see my brother, I know not what I can and may do to see you, my dear
friends. I am full of care and trouble and anxiety, and feel so weary with all the processes
of thinking and feeling, deliberating and deciding, that I am going through, that I must beg
you to determine for me. If you, upon due consideration, say "Come," I will come. And forgive
me that I put it thus to you, but I have a sense of mental incapacity, amounting almost to
imbecility; and I feel, every now and then, as if my brain machinery was running down, and
would presently stop altogether. Seriously, what with the greater and the less, the unrest
of body and the disquiet of mind, I feel occasionally all but distracted....

I will write you more when I answer your letter of this morning.

God bless you, my dearest friend....

I have so much to say to you about Arnold, but shall perhaps forget it. Is it not curious that
reading his thoughts and words should have tended to strengthen in me a conviction of duty
upon a point where he appears to take an absolutely different view from mine?--that of seeking
and obtaining redress from wrong by an appeal to processes of litigation and legal tribunals;
but the earnestness of his exhortations to the conscientious pursuit of one's individual convictions
of duty was powerful in making me cleave to my own perception and sense of right, though it
brought me to a conclusion diametrically opposite to his own.

This, however, is often the case. The whole character of a good man has vital power over one
even where his special opinions are different from one's own, and may even appear to one mistaken.

The abiding spirit of a man's life, more than his special actions and peculiar theories, is
that by which other men are moved and admonished. I have extreme faith in the potency of this
species of influence, and comparatively less in the effect of example, in special cases and
particular details of conduct. Christ's teaching was always aimed at the spirit which should
govern us, not at its mere application to isolated instances; and to those who sought advice
from Him for application to some special circumstance He invariably answered with a deep and
broad rule of conduct, leaving the conscience of the individual to apply it to the individual
case; and it seems to me the only way in which we can exhort each other is by the love of truth,
the desire of right, the endeavor after holiness, which may still be ours, and to which we
may still effectually point our fellow-pilgrims, even when we ourselves have fallen by the
wayside under the weight of our own infirmities, failures, and sins.

See! I intended to have broken off when I wrote "God bless you." How I have preached on! But
I have much more to say yet. Dear love to Dorothy.

                              Ever your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                            Friday, November 21st, 1845.

The Hibernia is in, the Great Britain is in, and I have had my letters, ... not a few of them
from various indifferent people, who want me to do business and attend to their affairs for
them here. Truly I am in a plight to do so every way. One man wants me to exert the influence
which he is sure my intimacy with Mr. Bunn (!) must give me to have an opera of his brought
out at Drury Lane; another writes to me that "my family's well-known interest in the theatres"
(a large view of the subject) "must certainly enable me to have a play of his produced at one
of them;" and so forth, and so on.

All these people will think me a wretch, of course, because I cannot do any of the things they
want me to do; moreover, no power of human explanation will suffice hereafter to make them
aware that I am not upon terms of affectionate intimacy with Mr. Bunn, that no member of my
family has now any interest whatever in any theatre whatever, and that I have been so overwhelmed
with anxieties and troubles of my own as to make my attention to the production of operas and
plays and such like things quite impossible just now.

The strangest part of all this is that these men write to me, desiring me to commend that which
I think bad, and that which, moreover, they know that I think bad; but they seem to imagine
that some effort of sincere friendship and kindness on my part is all that is necessary to
induce me, in spite of this, to recommend and heartily to praise what I hold to be worthless.

Friendship with eyes and ears and a conscience is, I believe indeed, for the most part, and
for the purposes of most people, tantamount to no friendship at all, or perhaps rather to a
mild form of enmity.

Do you not think it is rather farcical on your part to request me to answer your letters, when
you know 'tis as much as my place (in creation) is worth not to do so, and that, moreover,
every day's post brings me that which impresses the sufficiency of each day's allotments devoutly
to my mind? Did I ever not answer your letters, you horrid Harriet? My dear Hal, in spite of
the last which I received from you, after I had just concluded a very long one to you, bearing
date November 20th (there now! you see I remember the date even of my yesterday's letter!),
I still wish for another deliberate expression of your opinion about my coming down to Hastings.
That you desire it, in spite of all considerations, I know. What your judgment is, now that
I have laid all considerations before you, I should like to know....

To-day was appointed for my visit to Mrs. Grote, and Rogers was to have come for me at one
o'clock, to go to the Paddington railroad, near the Ten-Mile Station, on which she lives; but
lo and behold, just as I was completing my preparations comes an express to say that Mrs. Grote
had been seized with one of her neuralgic headaches, and could not possibly receive us till
to-morrow! so there ended the proposed business of the day.

I had a visit from John O'Sullivan, a call from Rogers to readjust our plans for to-morrow,
and a very kind long visit from Milman.... I receive infinite advice on all hands about my
perplexed affairs, all of it most kindly meant, but little of it, alas! available to me. Some
of it, indeed, appears to me so worldly, so false, and so full of compromise between right
and wrong for the mere sake of expediency; sometimes for cowardice, sometimes for peace, sometimes
for pleasure, sometimes for profit, sometimes for mere social consideration,--the whole system
(for such it is) accepted and acknowledged as a rule of life--that, as I sit listening to these
friendly suggestions, I am half the time shocked at those who utter them, and the other half
shocked at myself for being shocked at people so much my betters.... My abiding feeling is
that I had better go back to my beloved Lenox, to the side of the "Bowl" (the Indian name of
a beautiful small lake between Lenox and Stockbridge), among the Berkshire hills, where selfishness
and moral cowardice and worldly expediency exist in each man's practice no doubt quite sufficiently;
but where they are not yet universally recognized as a social system, by the laws of which
civilized existence should be governed. You know, "a bad action is a thousand times preferable
to a bad principle."

Among the other things which the American mail brought me was a charming sketch by my friend
W---- of the very site upon which we settled that I should build my house. The drawing is quite
rough and unfinished, but full of suggestion to one who knows the place.

I went by appointment this afternoon to see Lady Dacre. Poor thing! she was much overcome at
the sight of me. Her deep mourning for her young grandchild, and her pathetic exclamations
of almost self-reproach at her own iron strength and protracted old age, touched me most deeply.
She seemed somewhat comforted at finding that I had not grown quite old and haggard, and talked
to me for an hour of her own griefs and my trials.

She and Lord Dacre pressed me with infinite kindness to go down to them at the Hoo; and though
I felt that if we sail on the 4th I ought to be satisfied with having had this glimpse of them,
if my stay were prolonged I should like very much to go there for a short time.

Lord Dacre told me that the Great Western had arrived yesterday, and brought most threatening
news of the hostile spirit of America about the Oregon question; he fears there will certainly
be a war. Good God, how horrible! The two foremost nations of Christendom to disgrace themselves
and humanity by giving such a spectacle to the world!

After my visit to the Dacres, I came back to my solitary dinner in Mortimer Street; and, reflecting
upon many things during this lonely evening, have wished myself between you and dear Dorothy,
who neither of you tell falsehoods or pretend to like things and people that you dislike. Wouldn't
it be a nice world if one could live all one's time with none but the best good people? I have
spent the whole evening in reading my friend Charles Sumner's Peace Oration, which I only began
in America; and to listening to the lady playing on the piano next door, and envying her. Our
landlord has a piano in his room downstairs, I find, and he is not at home: now, that is a
real temptation of the very devil. How I should like to pay half an hour's visit to it!

My dear Hal, Mrs. Jameson is coming to see me to-morrow morning! What shall I do--what shall
I say about her tiff with Adelaide? Wasn't it a pity that Mrs. Grote was taken ill this morning?

God bless you. I want to say one or two words to dear Dorothy, according to right, for she
has written to me in your two last letters.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

Oh, I do wish I was with you! for you are not in the least base, mean, cowardly, or worldly.

  DEAREST GOOD ANGEL,

Do not fancy, from the vehemence of my style to Harriet, that I am in a worse mental or material
condition than I am. I only do hope that before I have lived much longer it will please God
to give me grace to love and admire the great bulk of my fellow-creatures more than I do at
present. Certainly, dear Dorothy, if I should remain in England, I will come down to Hastings
for a fortnight; and owe my subsistence for that time to you and Hal. Perhaps these rumors
of wars may make some difference in my father's plans. I should be very happy with you both.
I have a notion that you would spoil me as well as Hal, and, used to that as I used to be "long
time ago," it would be quite an agreeable novelty now.

                              Ever yours affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                            Friday, November 21st, 1845.

This letter was begun yesterday evening, my beloved Hal. My nerves are rather in a quieter
state than when I wrote last, thanks to a warm bath and cold head-douche, which, taken together,
I recommend to you as beneficial for the brain and general nervous system....

I am going to dine tête-à-tête with Rogers; I have persuaded him to come down with me to Burnham.
Poor old man! he is very much broken and altered, very deaf, very sad. This last year has taken
from him Sydney and Bobus Smith; and now, the day before yesterday, his old friend Lady Holland
died, and he literally stands as though his "turn" were next--it may be mine.

Do you know, that in reading that striking account or Arnold's death, I got such a pain in
my heart that I felt as if I was going to die so. So! So, indeed, God grant I might die! but
none can die so who has not so lived.

Two things surprise me in Arnold's opinions--three,--his detailed account of wars between nations
without any expression of condemnation of war, but rather a soldierly satisfaction in strife
and strategy. This, by-the-by, my friend Charles Sumner notices with regret in his "Peace Oration."
Then Arnold's apparent approbation of men, even clergymen, going to law for their rights, while
at the same time speaking with detestation of the legal profession, which surely involves some
inconsistency. Clergymen, according to the vulgar theory, are imagined to be, if not less resentful
in spirit, at any rate more pacific in action than the laity, and ought, to my thinking, no
more to go to law than to war. The third thing that puzzles me is his constant reference to
what he calls a Church, or "the Church," which, with his views about Christianity, is a term
that I do not comprehend.

It is curious to me to see Emily's marks along the margin. They are the straight ones, and
are applied zealously everywhere to passages of dogmatical discussion about doctrines. Mine
you will find the crooked ones, and my pencil, of course, invariably flew to the side of what
expressed moral excellence and a perception of material beauty. Those passages that Emily has
marked I do not understand--does she? I ask this in all simplicity, and not at all in arrogance;
for I cannot make head or tail of them. Perhaps she can make both, for I think she has a taste
and talent for theological controversy. I was surprised to find she had not marked his diary
and journals at all; I hardly knew how to leave them unmarked at all. Those Italian journals
of his made me almost sick with longing. It is odd that this southern mania should return upon
me so strongly after so many years of freedom from it, merely because there seemed to arise
just now a possibility of this long-relinquished hope being fulfilled. I know that I could
not live in Italy, and I suppose that I should be dreadfully offended and grieved by the actual
state of the people, in the midst of all the past and present glory and beauty, which remains
a radiant halo round their social and political degradation. But I did once so long to live
in Italy, and I have lately so longed to see it, that these journals of Arnold's have made
me cry like a child with yearning and disappointment.

My brother John told me that, in his opinion, Arnold was not entirely successful as a trainer
of young men: that the power and peculiarity of his own character was such that, in spite of
his desire that his pupils should be free, independent, and individual, they involuntarily
became more or less mental and moral imitations of him: that he turned out nothing but young
Arnolds--copies, on a reduced scale, of himself; few of them, if any, as good as the original.
This involuntary conformity to any powerful nature is all but inevitable, where veneration
would consciously and deliberately lead to imitation, and thus those minds which would most
willingly leave freedom to others, both as a blessing and a duty, become unintentionally compelling
influences to beget and perpetuate, in those around them, a tendency to subservience and dependency.

Charles Greville seems very much amused at my enthusiasm for Arnold, and still more when I
told him that, for Arnold's sake, I wished to know Bunsen. He said he was sure I should not
like him. Rogers told me the same thing; ... that Arnold was a man easily to be taken in by
any one who would devote themselves to him, which he--Rogers--said Bunsen did when they met
abroad.... How much of this is true, God only knows: Rogers is often very cynical and ill-natured
(alas, he has lived so long, and known so much and so many!) It may not be true; though, again,
Arnold "was but a man as other men are," and went but upon two legs, like the best of them;
nevertheless, if I were to remain in England, I would make some effort to know his chosen friend.
Rogers, with whom I dined yesterday, told me that if he had known this wish of mine, he would
have asked Bunsen to meet me. I then questioned him about Whately, and he said I should be
delighted with him--perhaps, dear H., because he is a little mad, you know, and I appear to
some of my friends here to have that mental accomplishment in common with other more illustrious
folk.

And now I have finished that book, Arnold's Life, by his spiritual son. It has been to me,
in the midst of all that at present harasses and disgusts me, a source of peace and strength,
and I have taken it up hour after hour, like the antidote to the petty poisons of daily life.

I have had two notes from Lady Dacre about arranging hours to meet; but, unfortunately, the
little time I have is so taken up that it will be impossible for me to see her, as she begs
me, this morning. They leave town again on Saturday, and I do not suppose that it will be in
my power to get down again to the Hoo, which she urges me very much to do, ... so that I fear
I shall not see her before I go, which is a grief to me.

John O'Sullivan does not sail till the 4th, and if we go then, I shall feel that my father
will have somebody who will humanely look after him on board ship when I am disabled.... I
think he has now some intention of making the expedition for the sake of giving readings, and
perhaps of acting again, in the principal cities of the United States, and, apart from my interest
and affairs, this may be a sufficient motive for his undertaking the voyage.

I am going to write a word to the dear good angel, and therefore, my beloved Hal, farewell....

    [I have not endorsed my brother's opinion about Arnold's influence
    on his pupils. Long after this letter was written, I had the honor
    and advantage of making the acquaintance of Baron Bunsen, and was
    able to judge for myself of the value of the opinions I had heard of
    him.]

  MY DEAREST DOROTHY,

... I shall hold my mind and body in readiness to come down on Wednesday, if up till Monday
you still wish for me. I have told Hal all I have to tell of myself, and she may tell you as
much of it as she pleases....

Just after my father's departure, I received a very kind invitation from my friend Lady M----,
who is staying in Brighton, to come and remain with her while my father was there....

God bless you, dear Dorothy. I love you more than I seem to know you, but I know that you are
good, and most good to my dear Harriet, and that I am

                              Yours very affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

                          MORTIMER STREET, Tuesday, November 25th, 1845.
  DEAREST HAL,

I had a letter yesterday from my father, from Brighton.... He has renounced the project of
crossing the Atlantic at present....

Of course, dear Hal, we are none of us half patient enough. Suffering and injustice are so
intolerable to us that we will not endure them, and forget all the time that God allows and
endures them.

You ask me if I recollect my discussion with you going down to Southampton. Very well, my dear
Hal, and your appearance especially, which, in that witch's travelling-cap of yours, is so
extremely agreeable to me that you recur to me in it constantly, and as often I execrate your
bonnet. How much I do love beauty! How I delight in the beauty of any one that I love! How
thankful I am that I am not beautiful! my self-love would have known no bounds.

I am writing with a very bad pen. I told you of that pen Rogers mended for me, and sitting
down to try it, wrote the two following lines, which he gave me, of Cowper's:

    "The path of sorrow, and that path alone,
    Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown."

You will understand that this touched me much. You hope that my nerves will have leisure to
become tranquillized in the country; but the intellectual life by which I am surrounded in
England is such a contrast to my American existence that it acts like a species of perpetual
intoxication. The subjects of critical, literary, and social interest that I constantly hear
so ably and brilliantly discussed excite my mind to a degree of activity that seems almost
feverish, after the stagnant inertia to which it has been latterly condemned; and this long-withheld
mental enjoyment produces very high nervous excitement in me too. The antagonism I often feel
at the low moral level upon which these fine intellectual feats are performed afterwards causes
a reaction from my sense of satisfaction, and sometimes makes that appear comparatively worthless,
the power, skill, and dexterity of which concealed the sophistry and seduced me while the debate
was going on.

My dearest H----, I wrote all this at Burnham. You will see by this that we do not leave England
by the next steamer, and I think there is every probability of my remaining here for some time
to come, and, therefore, spending a full fortnight with you at Hastings....

I have a quantity to say to you about everything, but neither time nor room. We had much talk
about Arnold at the Beeches, and the justice dealt him by a cynical poet, a hard-headed political
economist, a steeled man of the world, and two most dissimilar unbelievers was various and curious.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   MORTIMER STREET, November 26th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I expect my father home to-day; but, as I have written to you, his note from Brighton expressed
no annoyance at my determination....

I must see if I cannot possibly write something for a few pence, so as not to stretch out a
beggar's hand even to him.... I enjoyed my visit to Burnham extremely: the admirable clever
talk, the capital charming music, the delight of being in the country, and the ecstasy of a
fifteen miles' ride through beautiful parks and lanes, filled my time most pleasurably. I know
no one who has such a capacity (that looks as if I had written rapacity--either will do) for
enjoyment, or has so much of it in mere life--when I am not being tortured--as I have. I ought
to be infinitely thankful for my elastic temperament; there never was anything like it but
the lady heroine of Andersen's story "The Ball," who had "cork in her body."

We had much talk about Arnold and Bunsen, much about Sydney Smith, several of whose letters
Mrs. Grote gave us to read. Rogers read them aloud, and his comments were very entertaining,
especially with the additional fun of Mrs. Grote holding one of the letters up to me in a corner
alone, when I read, "I never think of death in London but when I meet Rogers," etc.

I have written a very long letter to my sister to-day, and one to E----. I am going to dine
with Mrs. Procter, to meet Milnes, whose poetry you know I read to you here one evening, and
you liked it, as I do, some of it, very much.... As for L----, I think one should be a great
deal cleverer than he is to be so amazingly conceited, and of course, if one was, one wouldn't
be; and if that sentence is not lovely, neither is "Beaver hats." ("Beaver hats is the best
that is, for a shower don't hurt 'em, the least that are," quoth an old countrywoman to Mrs.
FitzHugh, comparing the respective merits of beaver and straw.)

Only think, Hal, what an enchanting man this landlord of ours must be! He has had his pianoforte
tuned, and actually proposes sending it up into one of these rooms for my use. I incline to
think the difficulty with him is not so much having a woman in the house, as a natural desire
to receive a larger compensation if he takes this woman--me--in.

God bless you, dear. I feel happy in the almost certain prospect of being with you before very
long, and you cannot imagine how much my heart is lightened by the more hopeful circumstances
in which I think I am placed....

Good-bye, dear Hal. Give my love to Dorothy, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                    November 29th, 1845.

I have just returned home from a dinner at Mrs. Procter's. It is a quarter to twelve o'clock,
and until twelve I will write to you, my dear Hal. I found your ink-bottle on my table. Thank
you. This is my birthday. Did you give it me on that account?--a compliment to the anniversary.
I have not written so much as usual to you these last few days; my time is very much taken
up; for, even at this dead season of the year, as it is called in London, I have many morning
visitors, who come and sit with me a long while, during which time no letters get written.
I wrote to you last on Wednesday, the day on which my father was to come to town. At one o'clock,
accordingly, he marched in, looking extremely well, kissed me, opened his letters, wrote me
a check for £10, and at five o'clock went off to Brighton again, telling me he should remain
there until next Monday week, and, in the mean time, bidding me "amuse myself, and make myself
as comfortable as I could." ...

It is past twelve now, and I am getting tired; the late hours and good dinners and wine and
coffee are a wonderful change in my American habits of life, and seem to me more pleasant than
wholesome, after the much simpler mode of existence to which I have become accustomed latterly.
I took a good long walk on Friday, across the Green Park and St. James's Park to Spring Gardens,
and up the Strand to Coutts', and home again....

I had a pleasant dinner yesterday at Lady Essex's. Rogers took me there, and brought me home
in his carriage; he is exceedingly kind to me. Henry Greville dined with us, sat by me, and
talked to me the whole time about my sister, which was very pleasant and did me good. Sir Edward
Codrington and his daughter, who are old friends of mine, were there, and met me with great
cordiality; and though the evening was not very brilliant, I enjoyed myself very much.

Kinglake, the author of "Eothen," paid me a long visit to-day, and was very agreeable....

Mrs. Procter asked me to-day to take their family dinner with them, because she knew I should
else dine all alone. Mr. Procter was not at home, so that we had a tête-à-tête gossip about
everybody....

I know very well that nobody likes to be bored, but I think it would be better to be bored
to extinction than to mortify and pain people by rejecting their society because they are not
intensely amusing or distinguished, or even because they are intensely tiresome and commonplace....

Good-night, dear. My eyes smart and ache; I must go to bed. I have seen to-day some verses
written by an American friend of mine on my departure. I think they are good, but cannot be
quite sure, as they are about myself. I will send them to you, if you care to see them.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   MORTIMER STREET, November 30th, 1845.

I wrote to you until 12.30 last night, and it is now 12.30 this morning, and it must be very
obvious to you that, not being Dorothy, I can have nothing under the heavens to say to you.
Let me see for the events of these hours. After I went to bed I read, according to a practice
which I have steadily followed for the past year, in the hope of substituting some other last
thoughts and visions for those which have haunted me, waking or sleeping, during that time.
So last night, having, alas! long ago finished Arnold, and despatched two historical plays,
long enough, but nothing else, to have been written by Schiller, which my brother gave me,
I betook myself to certain agricultural reports, written by a Mr. Coleman, an American, who
came over here to collect information upon these subjects for an agricultural society. These
reports he gave me the other day, and you know I read implicitly whatever is put into my hands,
holding every species of book worth reading for something. So I read about fencing, enclosing,
draining, ditching, and ploughing, till I fell asleep, fancying myself Ceres.

This morning, after some debate with myself about staying away from church, I deliberately
came to the conclusion that I would do so, because I had a bad headache. (Doesn't that sound
like a child who doesn't want to go to church, and says it has got a stomach-ache? It's true,
nevertheless.) But--and because I have such a number of letters to write to America, that I
thought I would say my prayers at home, and then do that.

And now, before beginning my American budget, I have written one to Lady Dacre, one to Emily,
one to my brother, and this one to you; and shall now start off to the other side of the Atlantic,
by an epistle to J---- C----, the son of the afore-mentioned agriculturist, a friend of mine,
who when I last left America held me by the arm till the bell rang for the friends of those
departing by the steamer to abandon them and regain the shore, and whose verses about me, which
I mentioned to you in my last night's letter, please me more than his father's account of top-dressing,
subsoiling, and all the details of agriculture, which, however, I believe is the main fundamental
interest of civilization.

Before this, however, I must go and take a walk, because the sun shines beautifully, and

    "I must breathe some vital air,
    If any's to be found in Cavendish Square."

I'm sorry to say we are going to leave this comfortable lodging and our courteous landlord,
whose civilities to me are most touching. I do not know what my father intends doing, but he
talked of taking a house at Brompton. What a distance from everything, for him and for me!

I have just had a kind note from the M----s, again earnestly bidding me down to Hampshire;
another affectionate invitation from Lord and Lady Dacre to the Hoo, and a warm and sympathizing
letter from Amelia Twiss, for whom, as you know, I entertain even a greater regard and esteem
than for her sisters....

My dear Hal, when my father told me that he was going to Brighton for three weeks, it seemed
quite impossible that we should sail for America on December 4th. Now that that question is
settled, at any rate temporarily, I feel restored to something like calm, and think I shall
probably go and see the M----s, and perhaps run down to Hastings to visit--Dorothy Wilson,
of course.

God bless you, dear. Does Dorothy write better about nothing than I do?

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                 THE HOO, WELWYN, HERTS, December, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

... God knows I am admonished to patience, both by my own helplessness and the inefficiency
of those who, it seems to me, ought to be able to help me....

Doubtless, my father reasonably regrets the independence which I might by this time have earned
for myself in my profession, and feels anxious about my unprovided future. I have written to
Chorley, the only person I know to whom I can apply on the subject, to get me some means of
publishing the few manuscript verses I have left in some magazine or other.... If I cannot
succeed in this, I shall try if I can publish my "English Tragedy," and make a few pounds by
it. It is a wretchedly uncomfortable position, but compared with all that has gone before it
is only uncomfortable.

I came down here yesterday, and found, though the night was rainy and extremely cold, dear
Lord Dacre and B---- standing out on the door-step to receive me. She has grown tall, and stout,
and very handsome.... Is it not wonderful that the spirit of life should be potent enough ever
to make us forget the death perpetually hovering over and ready to pounce upon us? and yet
how little dread, habitually, disturbs us, either for ourselves or others, lying all the time,
as we do, within the very grasp of doom! Lord Dacre is looking well; my friend Lady Dacre is
grown more deaf and much broken. Poor thing! she has had a severe trial, in the premature loss
of those dearest to her....

God bless you, dear Hal. Good-by. Love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    THE HOO, WELWYN, December 6th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I have been spending the greater part of the morning in sitting for my likeness to a young
girl here, a Miss E----, daughter of some old friends of the Dacres, whose talent for drawing,
and especially for taking likenesses, is uncommon.

That which Lawrence pronounced the most difficult task he ever undertook could hardly prove
an easy one to a young lady artist, who has, however, succeeded in giving a very sufficient
likeness of one of my faces; and I think it so pretty that I am charmed with it, as indeed
I always have been with every likeness almost that has ever been taken of me, but the only
true ones--the daguerreotypes. However, even daguerreotypes are not absolutely accurate; the
process is imperfect, except for plane (not plain, you know) surfaces. Besides, after all,
it takes a human hand to copy a human face, because of the human soul in both; and the great
sun in heaven wants fire, light, and power, to reproduce that spark of divinity in us, before
which his material glory grows pale.

As long as he was Phoebus Apollo, and went about, man-fashion, among the girls, making love
to such of them as he fancied, he may have been something of an artist, his conduct might be
called artistic, I should say; but now that he sits in the sky, staring with his one eye at
womankind in general, Sir Joshua, and even Sir Thomas, are worth a score of him.

While I was sitting, Mrs. E----, my young artist's mother, read aloud to us the new volume
of Lord Chesterfield's writings.

My impression of Lord Chesterfield is a very ignorant one, principally derived from the very
little I remember of that profound science of superficiality contained in his "Letters to his
Son." The matter I heard to-day exalted him infinitely in my esteem, and charmed me extremely,
both by the point and finish of the style (what fine workmanship good prose is!) and the much
higher moral tone than anything I remembered, and consequently expected from him.

Mrs. E---- read us a series of his "Sketches of his Political Contemporaries," quite admirable
for the precision, distinctness, and apparent impartiality with which they were drawn, and
for their happiness of expression-and purity of diction. Among them is a character of Lord
Scarborough, which, if it be a faithful portrait, is perhaps the highest testimony in itself
to the merit of one who called such a man his intimate friend; and going upon the faith of
the old proverbs, "Show me your company and I'll tell you what you are," "Like will to like,"
"Birds of a feather flock together," and all the others that, unlike Sancho Panza, I do not
give you, has amazingly advanced Lord Chesterfield in my esteem.

We have this morning parted with some of the company that was here. Mr. and Mrs. Hibbard, clever
and agreeable people, have gone away, and, to my great regret, carried with them my dear B----,
for whom my affection and esteem are as great as ever. Mrs. Hibbard is the daughter of Sydney
Smith, and so like him that I kept wondering when she would begin to abuse the bishops....

Dearest Hal, I took no exercise yesterday but a drive in an open carriage with Lady Dacre.
The Americans call the torture of being thumped over their roads in their vehicles exercise,
and so, no doubt, was Sancho's tossing in the blanket; but voluntary motion being the only
effectual motion for any good purpose of health (or holiness, I take it), I must be off, and
tramp while the daylight lasts.

What a delightful thing good writing is! What a delightful thing good talking is! How much
delight there is in the exercise and perfection of our faculties! How full a thing, and admirable,
and wonderful is this nature of ours! So Hamlet indeed observes--but he was mad. Good-bye.
Give my love to dear Dorothy, and

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    THE HOO, WELWYN, December 7th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Just before I came down here, Rogers paid me a long visit, and talked a great deal about Lady
Holland; and I felt interested in what he said about the woman who had been the centre of so
remarkable a society and his intimate friend for so many years. Having all her life appeared
to suffer the most unusual terror, not of death only, but of any accident that could possibly,
or impossibly, befall her, he said that she had died with perfect composure, and, though consciously
within the very shadow of death for three whole days before she crossed the dark threshold,
she expressed neither fear nor anxiety, and exhibited a tranquillity of mind by no means general
at that time, and which surprised many of the persons of her acquaintance. If, however, it
be true, as some persons intimate with her have told me, that her terrors were not genuine,
but a mere expression of her morbid love of power, insisting at all costs and by all means
upon occupying everybody about her with herself, then it is not so strange that she should
at last have ceased to demand the homage and attention of others as she so closely approached
the time when even their most careless recollection would cease to be at her command.

Rogers said that she spoke of her life with considerable satisfaction, asserting that she had
done as much good and as little harm as she could during her existence. The only person about
whom she expressed any tenderness was her daughter, Lady ----, with whom, however, she had
not been always upon the best terms; and who, being ultra-serious (as it is comically called),
had not unnaturally an occasional want of sympathy with her very unserious mother. Lady Holland,
however, desired much to see her, and she crossed the Channel, having travelled in great haste,
and arrived just in time to fulfil her mother's wish and receive her blessing.

Her will creates great astonishment--created, I should say; for she is twice buried already,
under the Corn Law question. She left her son only £2000, and to Lord John Russell £1500 a
year, which at his death reverts to Lady L----'s children. To Rogers, strange to say, nothing;
but he professed to think it an honor to be left out. To my brother, strange to say, something
(Lord Holland's copy of the "British Essayists," in thirty odd volumes); and to Lady Palmerston
her collection of fans, which, though it was a very valuable and curious one, seems to me a
little like making fun of that superfine fine lady.

I have just come back from church, dear Hal, where the Psalms for the day made me sick. Is
it not horrible that we should make Christian prayers of Jewish imprecations? How can one utter,
without shuddering, such sentences as "Let them be confounded, and put to shame, that seek
after my soul. Let them be as the dust before the wind: and the angel of the Lord scattering
them. Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the Lord persecute them"? Is
it not dreadful to think that one must say, as I did, "God forbid!" while my eyes rested on
the terrible words contained in the appointed worship of the day; or utter, in God's holy house,
that to which one attaches no signification; or, worst of all, connect in any way such sentiments
with one's own feelings, and repeat, with lips that confess Christ, curses for which His blessed
command has substituted blessings?

We were speaking on this very subject at Milman's the other evening, and when I asked Mrs.
Milman if she joined in the repetition of such passages, she answered with much simplicity,
like a good woman and a faithful clergywoman, "Oh yes! but then, you know, one never means
what one says,"--which, in spite of our company consisting chiefly of "witty Churchmen," elicited
from it a universal burst of laughter. I have not space or time to enlarge more upon this,
and you may be thankful for it....

I will just give you two short extracts from conversations I have had here, and leave you to
judge how I was affected by them....

I am sometimes thankful that I do not live in my own country, for I am afraid I should very
hardly escape the Pharisee's condemnation for thinking myself better than my neighbors; and
yet, God knows, not only that I am, but that I do, not. But how come people's nations so inside
out and so upside down?

Good-bye, my dear. I am enjoying the country every hour of the day. Give my love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                            MORTIMER STREET, Monday, December 8th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Your delightful little inkstand is the very pest of my life; it keeps tumbling over backwards
every minute, and pouring the ink all over, and making me swear (which is really a pity), and
is, in short, invaluable; and I am so much more obliged to you than I was even at first for
it, now that I know, I hope, all its inestimable qualities, that I think it right to mention
the increased gratitude I feel for the hateful little bottle. There it goes again! Oh, thank
you, my love! Just let me pick it up, and wipe the mess it has made.

I left the Hoo this morning, and have just been a couple of hours in Mortimer Street. I find
my father going to dine at Judge Talfourd's, and, I am happy to say, free from the pain in
his side which had alarmed me, and which I now suppose, as he did at the time, to have proceeded
only from cold. He looks well, and is in good spirits.

I find a note here from Miss Berry, inviting me to dinner to-day, which has been waiting for
me ever since Friday. Of course I could not go, and felt distressed that the old lady's kind
bidding should have remained so long unanswered. Just as I was despatching my excuse, however,
in rushed Agnes (Gooseberry, you know, as Sydney Smith used to call her), all screams and interjections,
to know why I hadn't answered her note, which was very annoying. However, in nursery language,
I peacified the good old lady to the best of my ability. I am sorry to lose their pleasant
party, but have an excessive dislike to hurrying immediately from one thing to another in this
way, and therefore must really spend this evening of my arrival in peace and quiet.

Mrs. ---- called to-day. I am sorry to say that she provokes me now, instead of only annoying
me, as she used to do. It's really quite dreadful! She talks such odd bits of sentimental morality,
that somehow or other don't match with each other, or with anything else in creation, that
it disgusts me, and I am so disagreeable and so conscious of it, and she is so conscious that
I am conscious of it, that, poor things! it is quite piteous for both of us.

You ask me the name of the political economist I met at Burnham. William Nassau Senior, a very
clever man, a great talker, good upon all subjects, but best upon all those on which I am even
below my average depth of ignorance, public affairs, questions of government, the science of
political economy, and all its kindred knowledges. The rest of our party were only Rogers and
myself, our host and hostess (Mr. and Mrs. Grote), and a brother of the latter, who has been
living many years in Sweden, has a charming countenance, a delightful voice, sings Swedish
ballads exquisitely, worships Jenny Lind, and knows Frederica Bremer intimately. He added an
element of gentleness and softness to the material furnished by our cast-iron "man of facts"
and our acrid poet, that was very agreeable. In speaking of Arnold, I was ineffably amused
at hearing Mrs. Grote characterize him as a "very weak man," which struck me as very funny.
The Esprit Forte, however, I take it, merely referred to his belief in the immortality of the
soul, the existence of a God, and a few other similar "superstitions." They seemed all to agree
that he was likely to "turn out" only such men as Lord Sandon and Lord Ashley. [The training
of Arnold, acting upon a noble mind inherited from a noble-minded mother, produced the illustrious
man whom all Protestant Christendom has lately joined to mourn, Dean Stanley, of whom, however,
no mention was made in the above discussion.] You, who know the political bias of these men,
will be better able to judge than I am, how far this was a compliment to Arnold's intellect;
to his moral influence, I suppose, the character of "only such" pupils would bear high testimony.

My father reads to-morrow at Highgate, and, I believe, twice again there in the course of next
week. Beyond that, I think he has no immediate plans for reading, and indeed his plans seem
altogether to me in the most undecided state.

I found letters here from my sister and E----, both of them urging me to join them in Rome;
these I read to my father, and I am thankful to say that he seemed to entertain the idea of
my doing so, and even hinted at the possibility of his accompanying me thither, inasmuch as
he felt rather fatigued with his reading, would be glad to recruit a little, would wish to
protect me on my journey to Italy, and, finally, never having been in Rome, would like to see
it, etc. He said, after we got there he could either leave me with my sister or stay himself
till the spring, when we might all come back together.

You may imagine how enchanted I was at the bare suggestion of such a plan. I told him nothing
he could do would give me so much happiness, and that as I had come back upon his hands in
the state of dependence in which I formerly belonged to him, it was for him to determine in
what manner the burden would be least grievous to him, least costly, and least inconvenient;
that if he thought it best I should go to my sister, I should be thankful to do so; but that
if he would come with me, I should be enchanted.

I think, dearest Hal, that this unhoped-for prospect will yet be realized for me. I am very
fortunate in the midst of my misfortune, and have infinite cause to be grateful for the hope
of such an opportunity of distracting my thoughts from it. Even to go alone would be far preferable
for me to remaining here, but I should have to leave my father alone behind, and do most earnestly
wish he may determine to come with me.

Our landlord and he cannot agree about terms, and I suspect that he would not remain in the
lodgings under any circumstances on that account. Oh! I hope we shall go together to Italy.
"Dahin! Dahin!" ...

How I do wish you were sitting on this little striped sofa by me! No offence in the world to
you, my dear Dorothy (or the Virgin Martyr), because I wish you were here too--in the first
place that Hal might not be too dissatisfied with my society; in the next place that I might
enjoy yours; and in the third place that you might benefit by both of ours.

I remain, dearly beloved females both of yours affectionately,

                                                                  FANNY.

There goes your ink-pot head over heels backward again! Oh, it has recovered itself! Hateful
little creature, what a turn it has given me--as the housemaids say--without even succeeding
in overturning itself, which it tried to do! It is idiotic as well as malicious!

                                               MORTIMER STREET, Tuesday.
  DEAREST HAL,

I did not hear a great deal more than I told you about Bunsen at Burnham. They all seemed to
think him so over-cordial in his manner as not to be sincere--or at any rate to produce the
effect of insincerity. Senior said that one of his sons was for a time private tutor in a family,
while Bunsen himself was one of the King of Prussia's ministers. I could not very well perceive
myself the moral turpitude of this, but the answer was that it was infra dig., and of course
that is quite turpitude enough. At the Hoo I asked Lord Dacre if he knew Bunsen, but he did
not. I should have attached some value to his opinion of him, because he has no vulgar notions
of the above sort, and also because, having lived at one time in Germany among Germans, he
has more means of estimating justly a mind and nature essentially German like Bunsen's than
most Englishmen, who--the very cleverest among them--understand nothing that is not themselves,
i.e. English, in intellect or character.

Mrs. E---- told me that she had heard from some of the great Oxford dons that the impression
produced among them by the first pupil of Arnold's who came among them was quite extraordinary--not
at all from superior intelligence or acquirement, but from his being absolutely a new creature
(think of the Scripture use of that term, Hal, and think how this circumstance illustrates
it)--a new kind of man; and that so they found all his pupils to differ from any young men
that had come up to their colleges before. When I deplored the cessation of this noble and
powerful influence by Arnold's death, she said--what indeed I knew--that his spirit survived
him and would work mightily still. And so of course it will continue to work, for to the increase
of the seed sown by such a one there is no limit. She told me that one of his pupils--by no
means an uncommon but rather dull and commonplace young man--had said in speaking of him, "I
was dreadfully afraid of Arnold, but there was not the thing he could have told me to do that
I should not instantly and confidently have set about." What a man! I do wonder if I shall
see him in heaven--as it is called--if ever I get there.

Mrs. E---- told me that Lady Francis [Egerton] knew him, and did not like him altogether; but
then he, it seems, was habitually reserved, and she neither soft nor warm certainly in her
outward demeanor, so perhaps they really never met at all.... Mrs. E---- said Lady Francis
had not considered her correspondence with Arnold satisfactory. I suspect it was upon theological
questions of doctrine (or doctrinal questions of theology); and that Lady Francis had complained
that his letters did not come sufficiently to the point. What can her point have been?...

As for what you say about deathbed utterances--it seems to me the height of folly to attach
the importance to them that is often given to them. The physical conditions are at that time
such as often amply to account for what are received as spiritual ecstasies or agonies. I imagine
whatever the laity may do, few physicians are inclined to consider their patients' utterances
in articulo mortis as satisfactorily significant of anything but their bodily state. Certainly
by what you tell me of ---- his moral perceptions do not appear to have received any accession
of light whatever from the near dawning of that second life which seems sometimes to throw
such awful brightness as the dying are about to enter it far over the past that they are leaving
behind.

My dinner at Mrs. Procter's was very pleasant. In the first place I love her husband very much;
then there were Kenyon, Chorley, Henry Reeve, Monckton Milnes, and Browning!--a goodly company,
you'll allow. Oh, how I wish wits were catching! but if they were, I don't suppose after that
dinner I should be able to put up with poor pitiful prose people like you for a long time to come.

With regard to the London standard of morality, dear Hal, I do not think it lower, but probably
a little higher upon the whole than that of the society of other great capitals: the reasons
why this highly civilized atmosphere must be also so highly mephitic are obvious enough, and
therefore as no alteration is probable, or perhaps possible in that respect, I am not altogether
sorry to think that I shall live in a denser intellectual but clearer moral atmosphere in my
"other world." I do not believe that the brains shrink much when the soul is well nourished,
or that the intellect starves and dwindles upon what feeds and expands the spirit.

My little sketch of Lenox Lake lies always open before me, and I look at it very often with
yearning eyes ... for the splendid rosy sunsets over the dark blue mountain-tops, and for the
clear and lovely expanse of pure waters reflecting both, above all for the wild white-footed
streams that come leaping down the steep stairways of the hills. I believe I do like places
better than people: these only look like angels sometimes, but the earth in such spots looks
like heaven always--especially the mountain-tops so near the sky, so near the stars, so near
the sun, with the clouds below them, and the humanity of the world and its mud far below them
again--all but the spirit of adoration which one has carried up thither one's self. I do not
wonder the heathen of whom the Hebrew Scriptures complain offered sacrifices on every high
hill: they seem--they are--altars built by God for His especial worship. Good-bye, my dearest Hal.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [After I had the pleasure and honor of making Baron Bunsen's
    acquaintance, I was one day talking with him about Arnold, and the
    immense loss I considered his death to England, when he answered,
    almost in Mrs. E----'s words, but still more emphatically, that he
    would work better even dead than alive, that there was in him a
    powerful element of antagonism which roused antagonism in others:
    his individuality, he said, stood sometimes in the way of his
    purpose, he darkened his own light; "he will be more powerful now
    that he is gone than even while he was here."

    In Charles Greville's "Memoirs," he speaks of going down to Oatlands
    to consult his sister and her husband (Lord and Lady Francis
    Egerton) upon the expediency of Arnold's being made a bishop by the
    prime minister of the day--I think his friend, Lord Melbourne--and
    says that they gave their decided opinion against it. I wonder if
    the correspondence which Lady Francis characterized as
    "unsatisfactory" was her ground of objection against Arnold. It is a
    curious thing to me to imagine his calling to the highest
    ecclesiastical office to have depended in any measure upon her
    opinion.

    I forget what Arnold's politics were; of course, some shade of Whig
    or Liberal, if he was to be a bishop of Lord Melbourne's. The
    Ellesmeres were Tories: she a natural Conservative, and somewhat
    narrow-minded, though excellently conscientious; but if she
    prevented Arnold being named to the Queen, she certainly exercised
    an influence for which I do not think she was quite qualified. I
    think it not improbable that Arnold's orthodoxy may not have
    satisfied her, and beyond that question she would not go.]

                                         Wednesday, December 10th, 1845.

Here, dearest Hal, are J---- C----'s verses; I think they have merit, though being myself the
subject of them may militate against my being altogether a fair judge. He stood by me when
last I sailed from America, until warned, with the rest of my friends, to forsake me and return
to the shore....

All poets have a feminine element (good or bad) in them, but a feminine man is a species of
being less fit, I think, than even an average woman to do battle with adverse circumstance
and unfavorable situation....

You ask me about my interviews with Mrs. Jameson. She has called twice here, but did not on
either occasion speak of her difference with my sister. To-day, however, I went to Ealing to
see her, and she then spoke about it; not, however, with any feeling or much detail: indeed,
she did not refer at all to the cause of rupture between them, but merely stated, with general
expressions of regret, that they were no longer upon cordial terms with each other....

Mrs. Jameson told me a story to-day which has put the climax to a horrid state of nervous depression
brought on by a conversation with my father this morning, during which every limb of my body
twitched as if I had St. Vitus's dance. The scene of the story was Tetschen, the Castle of
the Counts Thun, of which strange and romantic residence George Sand has given a detailed description
in her novel of "Consuelo." ...

As for the Moloch-worships of this world, of course those who practise them have their reward;
they pass their children through the fire, and I suppose that thousands have agonized in so
sacrificing their children. Is it not wonderful that Christ came eighteen hundred years ago
into the world, and that these pitiless, mad devil-worships are not yet swept out of it?...

I cannot tell you anything about myself, and, indeed, I can hardly think of myself....

My father has determined not to accompany me to Italy, so I shall go alone....

God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                     Friday, 12th, 1845.

Your ink-bottle, my dear, has undergone an improvement, if indeed anything so excellent could
admit of bettering. The little round glutinous stopper--india-rubber, I believe--from the peculiar
inconvenience of which I presume the odious little thing derives its title as patent, has come
unfastened from the top, and now, every time I open and shut it, I am compelled to ink my fingers
all over, in order to extract this admirable stopper from the mouth of the bottle, or crane
it back into its patent position in the lid, where it won't stay. 'Tis quite an invaluable
invention for the practice of patience.

I have nothing whatever to tell you. Two days ago my father informed me he had determined to
send me alone to Italy. Since then I have not heard a word more from him upon the subject.
He read at Highgate yesterday evening for the second time this week, but, as he had dinner
engagements each time at the houses of people I did not know, I did not accompany him. I think
he reads to-morrow at Islington, and if so I shall ask him to let me go with him. He reads
again on Thursday next, at Highgate....

I believe my eyes are growing larger as I grow older, and I don't wonder at it, I stare so
very wide so very often, Mrs. ---- talks sentimental morality about everything; her notions
are pretty near right, which is the same thing as pretty near wrong (for "a miss," you know,
"is as good as a mile"). She is near right enough to amaze me how she contrives to be so much
nearer wrong; she is like a person trying to remember a tune, and singing it not quite correctly,
while you know it better, and can't sing it at all, and are ready to go mad with mistakes which
you perceive, without being able to rectify them: that is a musical experience of which you,
not being musical, don't know the torture....

Did I tell you that Mrs. Jameson showed me the other day a charming likeness of my sister which
she had made--like that pretty thing she did of me--with all the dresses of her parts? If I
could have done a great littleness, I could have gone down on my knees and begged for it; I
wished for it so much.

She spoke to me in great tribulation about a memoir of Mrs. Harry Siddons which it seems she
was to have undertaken, but which Harry Siddons (her son) and William Grant (her son-in-law)
do not wish written. Mrs. Jameson seems to feel some special annoyance upon this subject, and
says that Mrs. Harry was herself anxious to have such a record made of her; and this surprises
me so much, knowing Mrs. Harry as I thought I did, that I find it difficult to believe it....

Do you remember, after our reading together Balzac's "Récherche de l'Absolu," your objecting
to the character of Madame de Cläes, and very justly, a certain meretricious taint which Balzac
seldom escapes in his heroines, and which in some degree impaired the impression that character,
in many respects beautifully conceived and drawn, would have produced? Well, there is a vein
of something similar in Mrs. ----'s mind, and to me it taints more or less everything it touches.
She showed me the other day an etching of Eve, from one of Raphael's compositions. The figure,
of course, was naked, and being of the full, round, voluptuous, Italian order, I did not admire
it,--the antique Diana, drawing an arrow from her quiver, her short drapery blown back from
her straight limbs by her rapid motion, being my ideal of beauty in a womanly shape. "Ah, but,"
said Mrs. ----, "look at the inimitable coquetry of her whole air and posture: how completely
she seems to know, as she looks at the man, that he can't resist her!" (It strikes me that
that whole sentence ought to be in French.) Now, this is not at all my notion of Eve; even
when she damned Adam and all the generations of men, I think she was more innocent than this.
I imagine her like an eager, inquisitive, greedy child, with the fruit, whatever it was, part
in her hand and part between her teeth, holding up her hand, or perhaps her mouth, to Adam.
You see my idea of Eve is a sensual, self-willed, ignorant savage, who saw something beautiful,
that smelt good, and looked as if it tasted good, and so tasted it, without any aspiration
after any other knowledge. This real innate fleshly devil of greediness and indiscretion would,
however, not bear the heavy theological superstruction that has been raised upon it, and therefore
a desire for forbidden knowledge is made to account for the woman's sin and the sorrows of
all her female progeny. To me this merely sensual sin, the sin of a child, seems much more
picturesque, a good deal fitter for the purposes of art, without the mystic and mythical addition
of an intellectual desire for knowledge and the agency of the Satanic serpent. Alas! the mere
flesh is devil enough, and serves for all the consequences.

Blackwood will publish my verses, and, I believe, pay me well for them; indeed, I shall consider
any payment at all good enough for such trumpery.

Good-bye, dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

My dearest Dorothea, or the Virgin Martyr, I make a courtesy to you. [By this title of a play
of Massinger's I used frequently to address Miss Wilson, whose name was Dorothy.]

                                          Saturday, December 13th, 1845.

Thank you, dear Hal, again, for those elastic circles. Now that I know how to use them, I am
extremely charmed with them. In my sister's letter to me she gave me no further detail of her
health than merely to state that she had injured herself seriously by sitting for hours on
the cold stones of St. Peter's....

You know, dear Harriet, that few women have ever had such an education as to enable them fully
to appreciate the classical associations of Italy (by-the-by, do you remember that one brief
and rather desponding notice of female education in "Arnold's Letters"?); and as for me, I
am as ignorant as dirt, so that all that full and delightful spring of pleasure which a fine
classical knowledge opens to the traveller in the heroic lands is utterly sealed to me. I have
not even put my lips to the brink of it. I have always thought that no form of human enjoyment
could exceed that of a thorough scholar, such a one as Arnold, for instance, visiting Rome
for the first time.

It is not, however, from recollection, association, or reflection that I look to deriving pleasure
in Italy, but from my vivid perceptive faculties, from my senses (my nose, perhaps, excepted),
and in the mere beauty that remains from the past, and abides in the present, in those Southern
lands. You know what a vividly perceptive nature mine is; and, indeed, so great is my enjoyment
from things merely material that the idea of ever being parted from this dear body of mine,
through which I perceive them and see, hear, smell, touch, and taste so much exquisite pleasure,
makes me feel rather uncomfortable. My spirit seems to me the decidedly inferior part of me,
and, compared with my body, which is, at any rate, a good machine of its sort, almost a little
contemptible, decidedly not good of its sort. I sometimes feel inclined to doubt which is the
immortal; for I have hitherto suffered infinitely more from a defective spirit than from what
St. Paul calls "this body of corruption."

My dear Harriet, if I get a chance to get into the waterfall at Tivoli, you may depend upon
it I will; because just at such times I have a perfectly immortal faith in my mortality. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                            Monday, December 15th, 1845.
  DEAREST HAL,

Thank you for your nice inkstand, but I do not like your sending it to me, nevertheless; because
I am sure it is a very great privation to you, being, as you are, particular and fidgety in
such matters; and it is not a great gain to me, who do not care what I write out of, and surely
I shall always be able, go where I will, among frogs or macaronis, to procure sucre noir or
inchiostro nero to indite to you with. I shall send you back the poor dear little beloved pest
you sent me first, because I am sure the stopper can be readjusted, and then it will be as
good as ever, and you will have a peculiar inkstand to potter with, without which I do not
believe you would be yourself.

Thank you for the extract from Arnold. I have no idea that Adam was "a mystical allegory,"
and you know that I believe every man to be his own devil, and a very sufficient one for all
purposes of (so-called) damnation....

I suppose the history of Genesis to be the form assumed by the earliest traditions in which
men's minds attempted to account for the creation and the first conditions of the human species.
The laborious and perilous existence of man; the still more grievous liabilities of woman,
who among all barbarous people is indeed the more miserable half of mankind: and it seems obvious
that in those Eastern lands, where these traditions took their birth, the growth of venomous
reptiles, the deadliest and most insidious of man's natural enemies, should suggest the idea
of the type of all evil.

Moses (to whom the Genesis is, I believe, in spite of some later disputants, generally attributed),
I presume, accepted the account as literally true, as probably did the authorities, Chaldean
or other, from which he derived it....

Moses' "inspiration" did not prevent his enacting some illiberal and cruel laws, among many
of admirable wisdom and goodness; and I see no reason why it should have exempted him from
a belief in the traditions of his age....

I have heard that there has lately been found in America part of the fossil vertebræ of a serpent
which must have measured, it is said, a hundred and forty feet! I cannot say I believe it,
but if any human creatures inhabited the earth at the time when such "small gear" are supposed
to have disported themselves on its surface, if the merest legend containing reference to such
a "worm" survived to scare the early risers on this planet of ours, in its first morning hours
of consolidation, who can wonder that such a creature should become the hideous representative
of all evil, the origin of all sin and suffering, and the special being between which and the
human race irreconcilable enmity was to exist forever? for surely not even the most regenerate
mind in Christendom could live on decent terms with the best-disposed snake of such a length
as that.

I do not think Mrs. Jameson had positively done anything in the matter of Mrs. Harry Siddons's
memoirs beyond looking over a good many papers and preparing her mind with a view to it; and
what you tell me a little shakes my confidence in my own opinion upon the subject, which, indeed,
was by no means positively made up about it, because I know--at least I think--there were elements
in Mrs. Harry's mind not altogether incompatible perhaps with the desire of leaving some record
of herself, or having such made for her by others.... There are few people whom I pity more
than Mrs. Jameson. I always thought she had a great deal of good in her, but the finer elements
in her character have become more apparent and valuable to me the longer I have known her;
her abilities are very considerable, and her information very various and extensive; she is
a devoted, dutiful daughter, and a most affectionate and generous sister, working laboriously
for her mother and the other members of her family.... I compassionate and admire her very much.

I dined on Friday last with dear Miss Cottin, who is a second edition of my dear Aunt Dall.
Think of having known two such angels in one's life! On Saturday I dined tête-à-tête with Mrs.
Procter, who is extremely kind to me.... Yesterday I dined with my father at the Horace Wilsons';
to-day I dine with Chorley, and to-morrow at the George Siddonses'.

You cannot think how much my late experiences have shattered me and broken my nervous equanimity....
To-day my father came suddenly into the room while I was playing on the piano, and startled
me so by merely speaking to me that I burst into tears, and could not stand for several minutes,
I trembled so. I have been suffering for some time past from an almost constant pain in my
heart. I have wretched nights, and sometimes pass the whole morning of these days when I dine
out, sitting on the floor, crying....

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever your affectionate
                                                                  FANNY.

                                        MORTIMER STREET, December, 1845.

No, my dearest Hal, it would be impossible for me to tell you how sad I am; and instead of
attempting to do so, my far better course is to try and write of something else.

My father still sits with maps and guide-books about him, debating of my route; and though
I told him the other day that I would be ready to start at any moment he appointed, and that
we both agreed that, on account of the cold, I had better not delay my departure, he has neither
determined my line of march nor said a single word to me about my means of subsistence while
I am abroad.

This morning he said that he had not yet entirely resolved not to accompany me; that if he
could conscientiously do it, he should like it of all things; but that he did not feel warranted
in neglecting any opportunity of making money. I think, perhaps, he is postponing his determination
till some answer is received from America about V----'s tiny legacy to me.... But the very
quickest answer to that letter cannot reach England before the middle of next month, and it
seems a great pity to delay starting till the weather becomes so cold that we must inevitably
suffer from it in travelling.

I feel no anxiety about the whole matter, or indeed any other. I am just as well here, and
just as well there, and just as well everywhere as anywhere else. And though I should be glad
to see all those much desired things, and most glad to embrace my sister again, and though
I am occasionally annoyed and vexed here, I have many friends, and am very well off in London;
and elsewhere, of course, I shall find what will annoy and vex me. I am quite "content," a
little after Shylock's fashion at the end of the judgment scene. At the core of some "content"
what heart-despair may abound!...

I told you of my dining at Mrs. Procter's yesterday. She was quite alone.... She showed me
a beautiful song written by my sister, words and music, a sort of lullaby, but the most woful
words! I think I must have inspired her with them, they threw me into such a state of nervous
agitation....

What a machine I am shut up in! Surely a desire to beget a temperance in all things had need
be the law of my existence; and, but that I believe work left unfinished and imperfect in this
life is finished in another, I should think the task almost too difficult of achievement to
begin it here.

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever yours affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                         Wednesday, December 17th, 1845.

I found at last the little cross you have made over your house in the engraving of the St.
Leonard's Esplanade, and when I had found it wondered how I came to miss it; but the truth
is it was a blot, and the truth is I took it for nothing more....

You know I think, in spite of the French proverb, "Toute vérité n'est pas bonne à dire," that
I think all truth is to be told; that is the teller's part: how it is received, or what effect
it has, is the receiver's.... I think to suspect a person of wrongdoing more painful than to
know that they have done wrong. In the first place, uncertainty upon the character of those
we love--the most vital thing in life to us, except our own character--is the worst of all
uncertainties. Your trust is shaken, your faith destroyed; belief, that soul of love, is disturbed,
and, in addition to all this, as long as any element of uncertainty remains you have the alternate
misery of suspecting yourself of unworthy, wicked, and base thoughts, of unjust surmises and
uncharitable conclusions. When you know that those you love have sinned against you, your way
is open and comparatively easy, for you have only to forgive them. I believe I am less sorry
to find that A---- has wronged me by her actions than I should have been to find that I had
wronged her by my thoughts.... I would a great deal rather have to forgive her for her misconduct,
and pity her for her misery, poor woman! than blame myself for the wickedness of unworthily
suspecting her. I am really relieved to know that, at any rate, I have not done her injustice.

I have been about all day, getting my money and passport, and paying bills and last visits.
I go on Saturday to Southampton, and cross to Havre. I do not know why Emily fancied I was
to be at Bannisters to-night, but that last week, when my father suddenly asked me how soon
I could start, I replied, "In twenty-four hours," and then wrote to Emily that possibly I might
be at Southampton to-day. I go by diligence from Havre to Rouen, by railroad from Rouen to
Paris, in the same coupé of the diligence which is put bodily--the diligence, I mean--upon
the rails; thence to Orleans by post-road, ditto; thence to Châlons-sur-Sâone, ditto, down
the Sâone to Lyons, down the Rhone to Marseilles; steam thence to Civita Vecchia, and then
vetturino to Rome. This is the route my father has made out for me; and, all things considered,
I think it is the best, and presents few difficulties or inconveniences but those inevitable
ones which must be encountered in travelling anywhere at this season of the year.

I shall not see you before I go, my dearest Hal, but I shall be with you before the Atlantic
separates us once again; I know not how or where, but look forward to some season of personal
intercourse with you before I return once more to America. The future, to be sure, lies misty
enough before me, but I have always a feeling of nearness to you which even the Alps rising
between us will not destroy, and I do not doubt to see you again before many months are passed.
I am going this evening to the Miss Berrys'; they have asked me repeatedly to dine with them,
and I have not had a single disengaged day, and as they have taken the trouble of coming to
see after me bodily several times, I must pay my respects to them before I go, as in duty bound....

I had a letter from T----; he had not yet received either of mine, and knew nothing of Philadelphia
or any of its inhabitants. He seems to think the Oregon question very black, and that the aspect
of affairs on both sides of the water threatens war....

My father now talks of reading in every direction as soon as I am gone--Manchester, Liverpool,
Edinburgh; the latter place he told me he thought he should go to in March; and then again,
every now and then, he says, as soon as he can settle his affairs he shall come after me, as
he should like to be in Rome at Easter to get the Pope's blessing. God bless you with a better
blessing, my dearest Hal!

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

... Charles Greville has given me a book of his to read: it is very well written and interests
me a good deal; it is upon the policy of England towards Ireland. He so habitually in conversation
deals in the merest gossip, and what appears to me to be the most worldly, and therefore superficial,
view of things, that I am agreeably surprised by the ability displayed in his book; for though
it is not in any way extraordinary, it is in every way beyond what I expected from him.

    [The direct railroad routes through France are now followed by all
    travellers to Italy, and the picturesque coach-road which I took
    from Orleans to Autun at this time, when they did not exist, is
    little likely to draw wayfarers aside from them; nor was the season
    of the year when I made that journey at all a favorable one in which
    to visit the forest and mountain region of the Nivernais. I was
    snowed up at a miserable little village among the hills called
    Château Chinon; the diligences were unable for several days to come
    up thither, the roads being impassable, and I had to make my way
    through the picturesque wild region in a miserable species of
    dilapidated cabriolet, furnished me at an exorbitant price from
    Château Chinon to Autun, where I was again picked up by the
    diligence.]

                                          Thursday, December 18th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I leave London the day after to-morrow for Southampton. I am full of calls, bills, visits,
sorrow, perplexity, and nervous agitation, which all this hurry and bustle increase tenfold;
letters to write, too, for the American post is in, and has brought me four from the other
side of the water to deal with. In the middle of all this, Mrs. Jameson sends me long letters
of Sarah Grant's and Mary Patterson's to read, which prove most distinctly to my mind that
she, Mrs. Jameson, wishes to write a memoir of Mrs. Harry Siddons; but do not at all prove
so distinctly to my mind that Mrs. Harry Siddons wished a memoir of herself to be written by
Mrs. Jameson. So all this I have had to wade through, and shall have to answer, wondering all
the while what under the sun it matters what I think about the whole concern, or why people
care one straw what people's opinions are about them, or what they do.

My opinion about memoirs, biographies, autobiographies, lives, letters, and books in general
indeed, Mrs. Jameson is perfectly familiar with; and therefore her making me go through this
voluminous correspondence just now, when she knows how pressed I am for time, seems to me a
little unmerciful; but, however, I've done it, that's one comfort.

Then comes dear George Combe, with a long letter, the second this week, upon the subject of
Miss C----'s private character, family connections, birth, parentage, reputation, etc., desiring
me to answer all manner of questions about her; and I know no more of her than I do of the
man in the moon: and all this must likewise be attended to....

About my consulting Wilson (our attached friend and family physician), I did so when I was
here before, and I am following the advice he then gave me; but for these physical effects
of mental causes, what can be done as long as the causes continue?...

Hayes (my maid) and I are to take the coupé of the diligence wherever we can get it on our
route, and so proceed together and alone. I shall pay for the third place, but it is worth
while to pay something to be protected from the proximity of some travelling Frenchmen; and
paying for this extra place is not a very great extravagance, as the cost of travelling by
public conveyance on the Continent is very moderate.

I do not know when Blackwood intends publishing my things. I gave them into Chorley's hands,
and Chorley's discretion, and know nothing further about them, but that I believe I shall be
paid for them what he calls "tolerably well," and therefore what I shall consider magnificently
well, inasmuch as they seem to me worth nothing at all.

I hear of nothing but the change of Ministry, but have been so much engrossed with my own affairs
that I have not given much attention to what I have heard upon the subject. I believe Sir Robert
Peel will come into some coalition with the Whigs, Lord John Russell, Lord Howick, etc., and
this is perhaps the best thing that can happen, because, by all accounts, the Whigs have literally
not got a man to head them. But I do not think anything is yet decided upon.

And now, my dear, I must break off, and write to M---- M----, and George Combe about Miss C----'s
virtue (why the deuce doesn't he look for it in her skull?), and Mrs. Jameson, and all America.

I breakfasted this morning with Rogers, and dine this evening at the Procters'. What an enviable
woman I might appear!--only you know better.

                              Yours truly,
                                                                  FANNY.

                 MORTIMER STREET, Friday Night (i.e. Saturday Morning,
                                     at 2 o'clock), December 19th, 1845.

No! my dearest Hal, I do not think that to one who believes that life is spiritual education
it needs any very painful or difficult investigation of circumstances to perceive, not why
such and such special trials are sent to certain individuals, but that all trial is the positive
result of or has been incurred by error or sin; and beholding the beautiful face of bitterest
adversity, for such is one of its aspects, that all trial is sent to teach us better things
than we knew, or than we did, before. There is nothing for which God's mercy appears to me
more praiseworthy than the essential essence of improvement, of progress, of growth, which
can be expressed from the gall-apple of our sorrows. To each soul of man the needful task is
set, the needful discipline administered, and therefore it doesn't seem to me to require much
investigation into mere circumstances to accept my own trials. They are appointed to me because
they are best for me, and whatever my apparent impatience under them, this is, in deed and
truth, my abiding faith....

But it is past two o'clock in the morning. I am almost exhausted with packing and writing.
Seven letters lie on my table ready to be sealed, seven more went to the post-office this afternoon;
but though I will not sleep till I bid you good-night, I will not write any more than just
that now. My fire is out, my room cold, and, being tired with packing, I am getting quite chilled.
You must direct to me to the care of Edward Sartoris, Esq., Trinità dei Monti, Rome, and I
will answer you, as you know. I will write to you to-morrow, that is to-day, when I get to
Bannisters; or perhaps before I start, if I can get up early enough to get half an hour before
breakfast.

Good-night. God bless you. I am unutterably sad, and feel as though I were going away from
everybody, I know not whither--it is all vague, uncertain, indefinite, all but the sorrow which
is inseparable from me, go where I will, a companion I can reckon upon for the rest of my life
everywhere. As for the rest, if we did but recollect it, our next minute is always the unknown.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                              BANNISTERS, Saturday, December 20th, 1845.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

My last words and thoughts were yours last night; but this morning, when I hoped to have written
to you again, I found it impossible to do so; so here I am in the room at Bannisters where
you and I and Emily were sitting together a few weeks ago,--she on her knees, writing for a
fly to take me to the steamer to-night, and I writing to you from this place, where it seems
as if you were still sitting beside us. Emily won't let me send you your little square ink-bottle
for Queen's heads, but says she will keep it for you, so there I leave it in her hands.

Charles Greville's book (for it is not a pamphlet) is called "The Policy of England to Ireland,"
or something as nearly like that as possible. My praise of it may occasion you some disappointment,
for I am pleased with it more because it is so much better than anything I expected from him
than because it is particularly powerful or striking in itself. The subject interests me a
good deal, and the book is very agreeably and well written, and in a far better tone than I
should have looked for in anything of his.

I have besought Mr. Lowndes to forward my letters to me without any delay, and I have no doubt
he will do so....

As for death, well is it with those who quietly reach the fifth act of their lives, with only
the usual and inevitable decay and dropping off of all beloved things which time must bring;
the sudden catastrophe of adverse circumstance, wrecking a whole existence in the very middle
of its course, is a more terrible thing than death.

My dearest Hal, I have no more to say but that "I love you." Emily is talking to me, and I
feel as if I ought to talk to her. Give my dear love to dear Dorothy, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                      ROME, TRINITÀ DEI MONTI, Monday, April 20th, 1846.

You ask me what I shall do in the spring, my dear Hal. My present plan is to return to England
next December, and remain with my father, if he can have me with him without inconvenience,
till the weather is fine enough to admit of my returning without too much wretchedness to America....

When E---- and my father wrote to me to return to England, I had no idea but that I was to
have a home with the latter, that he expected and wished me to live with him.... I think now
that if his deafness obliges him to give up his public readings, and cuts him off from his
club and the society that he likes, he will not be sorry that I should remain with him....

By-the-by, I take your question about my plans for the spring to refer not to this but to next
spring, as I suppose you know that I mean to remain with my sister during the coming summer,
and that we are going to spend the greater part of it at Frascati, where E---- has taken a
charming apartment in a lovely villa belonging to the Borghese.

You will be in England next winter, dear Hal, and I shall come then and stay with you and Dorothy.
You have interfered so little with my journal-keeping by your letters that I have been wondering
and lamenting that I did not hear from you for the last some time, and was all but wrought
up to the desperate pitch of writing to you out of turn, to know what was the matter, when
I received your last letter. I do not, however, keep my journal with any sort of regularity;
my time is extremely and very irregularly occupied, and I should certainly preserve no record
whatever of my impressions but for the very disagreeable conviction that it is my duty to do
so, if there is, as I believe there is, the slightest probability of my being able by this
means to earn a little money and to avoid drawing upon my father's resources. I have a great
contempt for this process, and a greater contempt for the barren balderdash I write: but exchange
is no robbery, a thing is worth what it will fetch, and if a bookseller will buy my trash,
I will sell it to him; for beggars must, in no case, be choosers....

You say that I have yet told you nothing of my satisfaction in Rome. I wish you had not made
your challenge so large. How shall I tell you of my satisfaction in Rome? and at which end
of Rome, or my satisfaction, shall I begin? You must remember, in the first place, that its
strangeness is not absolutely to me what it is to many English people; the brilliant and enchanting
sky is not unlike that with which I have been familiar for some years past in America; the
beautiful and (to us Anglo-Saxon islanders) unusual vegetation bears some resemblance to that
of the Southern States in winter. Boston, you know, is in the same latitude as Rome, and though
the American northern winter is incomparably more severe than that of Italy, the summer heat
and the southern semi-tropical vegetation are kindred features in that other world and this.
The difference of this winter climate and that of the United States has hitherto been an unfavorable
one to me; for I have been extremely unwell ever since I have been here--the sirocco destroys
me body and soul while it lasts, and there is a sultry heaviness in the atmosphere that gave
me at first perpetual headaches, and still continues to disagree extremely with me. Now, of
these abatements of my satisfaction I have told you, but of my satisfaction itself I should
find it impossible to tell, but I should think you might form some idea of it, knowing both
me and the place where I am.

I have hitherto been more anxious to remain with my sister than to go and see even the sights
of Rome. Now, however, that our departure for Frascati must take place in about a month, I
get up at seven every morning, and go out before breakfast alone, and in this way I am contriving
to do some of my traveller's duty.

I walked this morning to the Pantheon, and heard Mass there. On my return home, I went into
the Church of the Trinità dei Monti, to hear the French nuns sing their prayers. This afternoon
we have been to the Villa Albani, which is ridiculously full of rose-bushes, which are so ridiculously
full of roses that, except in a scene in a pantomime, I never saw anything like it. We remained
in the garden, and the day was like a warm English April day, in consequence of which we had
the loveliest pageant of thick sullen rain and sudden brilliant flashes of sunlight chasing
each other all over those exquisite Alban Hills, with our very un-English foreground of terraces,
fountains, statues, vases, evergreen garden walls of laurel, myrtle, box, laurestinus, and
ridiculous rose-bushes in ridiculous bloom. There never was a more enchanting combination of
various beauty than the landscape we looked at and the place from which we looked at it. I
brought away some roses and lemon-blossoms: the latter I enclose in this letter, that some
of the sweetness I have been enjoying may salute your senses also, and recall these divine
scenes to your memory still more vividly. We came home from the Villa Albani in the most tremendous
pour of rain, and had hardly taken off our bonnets when the whole sky, from the pines on Monte
Maris to the Dome of Santa Maria Maggiore, was bathed all over in beauty and splendor indescribable.
If we had only been Claude Lorraine, what a sunset we should have painted!

We have a charming little terrace garden to our house here, in which my "retired leisure" takes
perpetual delight....

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    FRASCATI, Wednesday, May 20th, 1846.
  MY DEAR HAL,

One would suppose that writing was to the full as disagreeable to you as it is to me, yet you
do not profess that it is so, but merely write that you have little to say, as you think, that
will interest me. Now, this is, I think, a general fallacy, but I am sure it is an individual
one: the sight of your handwriting, representing as it does to me your face, your voice, and,
above all, your generous and constant affection, makes the mere superscription of your letters
worth a joyful welcome from me; and for any dearth of matter on your part, it lies, I rather
think, chiefly in the direction which least affects me, i.e. society gossip, or "news," as
it is called (O Lord! such old news as it is), being for ever the same stuff with a mere imperceptible
difference in the pattern on it, let it come from what quarter of the civilized globe it will;
and which, as far as I have had occasion to observe latterly, forms the chief resource of "polite
letter-writers."

Of matters that do interest me, you might surely have plenty to say--your own health and frame
of mind; the books you read, and what you think of them; and whatever of special interest to
yourself occurs, either at home or abroad. At Ardgillan, you know, I know every inch of your
ground, and between the little turret room and the Dell it seems to me many letters might be
filled; then the state of politics in England interests me intensely; and the condition of
Ireland is surely a most fruitful theme for comment just now....

We are now at Frascati, and in spite of the inexhaustible, immortal interest of Rome, I am
rejoicing with my whole nature, moral, mental, and physical, in our removal to the country.
The beautiful aspect of this enchanting region, occasionally, by rare accident, recalls the
hill country in America that I am so fond of; but this is of a far higher and nobler order
of beauty.

The Campagna itself is an ever-present feature of picturesque grandeur in the landscape here,
and gives it a character unlike anything anywhere else.

The district of country round Lenox rejoices in a number of small lakes (from one hill-side
one sees five), of a few miles in circumference, which, lying in the laps of the hills, with
fine wooded slopes sweeping down to their bright basins, give a peculiar charm to the scenery;
while here, as you know, the volcanic waters of Albano and Nemi lie so deep in their rocky
beds as to be invisible, unless from their very margins.

Of the human picturesqueness of this place and people no American scenery or population have
an atom; and isolated, ugly, mean, matter-of-fact farm-houses, or whitewashed, clap-boarded,
stiff, staring villages, alike without antiquity to make them venerable or picturesqueness
to make them tolerable, are all that there represent the exquisitely grouped and colored masses
of building, or solitary specimens of noble time-tinted masonry and architecture, that every
half-fortress farmhouse in the plain, or hamlet or convent on the hill-side, present in this
paradise of painters.

I must confess to you, however, that the populousness of this landscape is not agreeable to
me. Absolute loneliness and the absence of every trace of human existence was such a striking
feature of the American scenery that I am fond of, where it was possible in some directions
to ride several miles without meeting man or woman or seeing their dwellings, that the impossibility
of getting out of sight of human presence or human habitation is sometimes irksome to me here.

It is true that this scenery is often wildly sublime in its character; nevertheless, it is
overlooked in almost every direction by villas, monasteries, or villages, and if one escapes
from these (as, indeed, I only suppose I may, for I have not yet been able to do so), one stumbles
among the ruins and gigantic remains of the great race that has departed, and recollections
of men, their works and ways, pursue one everywhere, and surround one with the vestiges of
the humanity of bygone centuries.

In the woods of Massachusetts wild-cats panthers, and bears are yet occasionally to be met
with, and the absence of the human element, whether present or past, gives a character of unsympathizing
savageness to the scenery; while here it has so saturated the very soil with its former existence
that where there is nobody there are millions of ghosts, and that, if the sense of solitude
is almost precluded, there is an abiding and depressing one of desolate desertion.

The personal danger which I am told attends walking alone about the woods and hills here rather
impairs my enjoyment of the lovely country....

How lamentably foolish human beings are in their intercourse with each other, to be sure, whether
they love or hate, or whatever they do!...

The epistle of yours that I am now answering I received only this morning, and, owing no one
else a previous debt, sat down instantly to discharge my debt to you. Am I honest? am I just?
If I am not, show me how I am not; if I am, why, hold your tongue.

The climate of Rome disagreed with me more than any climate of which I have yet had experience.
I had a perpetual consciousness of my bilious tendencies, and when the sirocco blew I found
it difficult to bear up against that and the permanent causes of depression I always have to
struggle against. The air here is undoubtedly freer and purer, but even here we do not escape
from that deadly hot wind, that blast, that I should think came straight from hell, it is so
laden with despair.

I liked those pretty lasses, the Ladies T----, very much. All young people interest me, and
must be wonderfully displeasing if they do not please me. I met them frequently, but they were
naturally full of gayety and life and spirits, which I naturally was not. The little society
I went into in Rome oppressed me dreadfully with its ponderous vapidity, and beyond exchanging
a few words with these bonnie girls, and admiring their sweet pleasant faces, I had nothing
to do with them. There was much talk about the chances of a marriage between Lord W---- and
Lady M----, but though her father left no stone unturned to accomplish this great blessing
for his pretty daughter, the matter seemed extremely doubtful when the season ended and they
all went off to Naples.

As for Mrs. H----, if she had chronicled me, I am afraid it would scarcely have been with good
words. I met her at a party at Mrs. Bunsen's (whose husband is the son of Arnold's friend)....
The young lady impressed me as one of that numerous class of persons who like to look at a
man or woman whose name, for any reason, has been in the public mouth, and probably her curiosity
was abundantly satisfied by my being brought up and shown to her. She made no particular impression
upon me, but I have no doubt that in sorrow, or joy, or any real genuine condition, instead
of what is called society, she might perhaps have interested me. It takes uncommon powers of
fascination, or what is even rarer, perfect simplicity, to attract attention or arouse sympathy
in the dead atmosphere of modern civilized social intercourse. All is so drearily dry, smooth,
narrow, and commonplace that the great deeps of life below this stupid stagnant surface are
never seen, heard, or thought of.

If your nieces' constancy in following the round of monotonously recurring amusements of a
Dublin season amazes me, they would certainly think it much more amazing to pass one's time
as I do, wandering about the country alone, dipping one's head and hands into every wayside
fountain one comes to, and sitting down by it only to get up again and wander on to the next
spring of living water. The symbol is comforting, as well as the element itself, though it
is a mere suggestion of the spiritual wells by which one may find rest and refreshment, and
pause and ponder on this dusty life's way of ours.

I rejoice the distress in Ireland is less than was anticipated, and am sorry that I cannot
sympathize with your nephew's political views [Colonel Taylor was all his life a consistent
and fervent Tory].... Politics appear to me, in a free government, to be the especial and proper
occupation of a wealthy landowner; and, in such a country as Ireland, I am sure they might
furnish a noble field for the exercise of the finest intelligence and the most devoted patriotism,
as well as fill the time with occupation of infinite interest, both of business and benevolence.
I should like to be a man with such a work....

My sister's little girl is lovely; she runs about, but does not speak yet. God bless you, my
dear friend. Give my love to dear Dorothy. If I can, I will come and see you both at Torquay
this next winter. I hope to be in England in November.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    FRASCATI, Wednesday, July 1st, 1846.

... You know of old that the slightest word of blame from you is worse than hot sealing-wax
on my skin to me, and that to my self-justifications there is no end. My dear friend, are mental
perplexity and despondency, moral difficulty, spiritual apathy, and a general bitter internal
struggle with existence, less real trials, less positive troubles, than the most afflicting
circumstances generally so classed? I almost doubt it. It may be more difficult to formulate
that species of anguish in words, and it may seem a less positive and substantial grief than
some others, but the plagues of the soul are real tortures, and I set few sufferings above
them, few difficulties and few pains beyond those that have their source not in the outward
dispensation of events, but in the inward conditions of our physical and moral constitutions.

Comparing one lot with another, does not rather the equality of the general doom of trouble
and sorrow, of difficulty and struggle, witness the impartiality with which we are governed
and our several fates distributed to us? The self-assured and self-relying strength of my constitution
(I mean by that my character as well as the temperament from which it results) knows nothing
of the trials that beset yours--doubt, distrust, despondency. I have health, mental and physical
activity, and a "mounting spirit" of indomitable enjoyment that buoyantly protects me from
sufferings under which others wince and writhe; nevertheless, I have the sufferings proper
to my individuality, and I needs must suffer, if it were only that I may be said to live, in
the fit and proper sense of the term. Our lots are just; by God they are appointed....

But in spite of abiding sorrow, I have often hours of vivid enjoyment, enjoyment which has
nothing to do with happiness, or peace, or hope; momentary flashes, bright gleams of exquisite
pleasure, of which the capacity seems indestructible in my nature; and whatever bitterness
may lie at my heart's core, it still leaves about it a mobile surface of sensibility, which
reflects with a sort of ecstasy every ray of light and every form of beauty.

You certainly do not enjoy as I do, and perhaps therefore you do not suffer as acutely; but
we err in nothing more than in our estimate of each other's natures, and might more profitably
spend the same amount of consideration upon our own lot, and its capabilities of sorrow or
of joy for our own improvement.

Why is it that people do perpetually live below their own pitch? as you very truly described
their living. My return to civilized society makes me ponder much upon the causes of the desperate
frivolity and dismal inanity which calls itself by that name, and in the midst of which we
live and move and have our being. If people did really enjoy and amuse themselves, nothing
could be better; because enjoyment and amusement are great goods, and deserve to be labored
for sufficiently; but the absence of amusement, of enjoyment, of life, of spirits, of vivacity,
of vitality, in the society of the present day, and its so-called diversions, strikes me with
astonishment and compassion. For my own part, I hold a good laugh to be inestimable in pleasure
and in profit; good nonsense well talked only less admirable than good sense well delivered;
and a spirit of fun the next best thing to a serious spirit; and moreover, thank God, they
are quite compatible! I think the stupid shallowness of society has some deep causes; one among
which is, of course, that by devoting all their energies and all their faculties and all their
time to mere amusement, as they have no right to do, people fail of their aim, and are neither
well amused nor well occupied, nor well anything else. For if "all work and no play makes Jack
a dull boy," what does the reverse do for him? This passion for cakes and sugar-candy in adult,
not to say advanced, life is rather lugubrious; and of course it strikes me forcibly on my
return from America, where the absence of a wholesome spirit of recreation is one of the dreariest
features of the national existence....

Here the absolute necessity for mere amusement strikes me as a sort of dry-rot in certain portions
of the fabric of civilized society, and tends to make it a sapless crumbling mass of appearances--the
most ostentatious appearance of all, that of pleasure, being perhaps the hollowest and most unreal.

It takes, I believe, no meaner qualities than intelligence and goodness to enable a person
to be thoroughly, heartily, and satisfactorily amused.

Unless you, my dear friend, deprecate our meeting to part again, I have no intention whatever
of leaving England without seeing you once more. I cannot imagine doing such a thing, unless
in compliance with your wish, or submission to inevitable necessity. I hope to come down to
Torquay, to you and Dorothy, for a few days in the winter.

I am amused at your saying that you don't think any one would feel very comfortable living
with me, who had not a great love of truth. Catherine Sedgwick once said it was impossible
to tell a lie before me with any comfort; and yet I have told my own lies, and certainly sinned,
as did not the worthy lady who, being charged with a falsehood, replied unhesitatingly, "Of
course, I know it was a lie; I made it! I thought it would do good." Another lady of my acquaintance,
speaking of a person we both knew, who was indifferent, to say the least of it, upon the question
of veracity, exclaimed, "Oh, but Mrs. C---- is really too bad, for she will tell stories when
there isn't the least necessity for it."

A---- was a curious instance of the distortion of a very upright nature; for she is undoubtedly
a person of great natural truth and integrity, and yet, under the influence of an unfortunate
passion, her pre-eminent virtue suffered total eclipse; and she must have condescended, proud
and sincere as she was, to much duplicity and much absolute falsehood. Poor girl!

I think one great argument against wrong-doing of every sort is that it almost invariably,
sooner or later, leads to a sacrifice of truth in some way or other; and for that reason a
hearty love of truth is a great preservative from sin in general.

Your letters, directed either to Rome or here, to the care of Edward Sartoris, have reached
me hitherto safely and punctually....

My sister particularly begs me to tell you that she rides ("a-horseback, you cuckoo!") between
twelve and sixteen miles almost every day. I cannot clearly tell whether she has grown thinner
or I have grown used to her figure.

The heat is beginning to be very oppressive, and I wish I was in England, for I hate hot weather.
The whole range of the Sabine Hills, as I see them from my window here, look baked and parched
and misty, in the glare beyond the tawny-colored Campagna. Every flower in the garden has bloomed
itself away; the trees loll their heads to the hot gusts of the sirocco, mocking one with the
enchanting beckoning gesture of a breeze, while the air is in truth like a blast from an oven
or the draught at the mouth of a furnace.

I walk before breakfast, and steep myself in perspiration; and get into the fountain in the
garden afterwards, and steep myself in cold water; and by dint of the double process, live
in tolerable comfort the rest of the day. And I have no right to complain, for this is temperate
to the summer climate of Philadelphia.

Mary and Martha Somerville are paying us a visit of a few days, and I have spent the last two
mornings in a vast, princely, empty marble gallery here, teaching them to dance the cachuca;
and I wish you could have seen Mrs. Somerville watching our exercises. With her eyeglasses
to her eyes, the gentle gentlewoman sat silently contemplating our evolutions, and as we brought
them to a conclusion, and stood (not like the Graces) puffing and panting round her, unwilling
not to say some kindly word of commendation of our effort, she meekly observed, "It's very
pretty, very graceful, very"--a pause--"ladylike." She spoke without any malicious intention
whatever, dear lady, but she surely left out the un. Do you not think it is time I should begin
to think of growing old? or do your nieces do anything more juvenile than this, with all their
ball-going?

God bless you, my dear Harriet. Good-bye.

                              I am ever, as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                               FRASCATI, Wednesday, September 2nd, 1846.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

... I think that the women who have contemplated any equality between the sexes have almost
all been unmarried, for while the father disposes of the children whom he maintains, and which
thus endows him with the power of supreme torture, what mother's heart is proof against the
tightening of that screw? At any rate, what number of women is ever likely to be found so organized
or so principled as to resist the pressure of this tremendous power? My sister, in speaking
to me the other day of what she would or would not give up to her husband of conscientious
conviction of right, wound up by saying, "But sooner than lose my children, there is nothing
that I would not do;" and in so speaking she undoubtedly uttered the feeling of the great majority
of women....

We suppose my father has gone to Germany, with some intention of giving readings there. He
has been on the Continent now upwards of three months, but we never hear anything definite
or precise about his engagements from himself; and in his letters he never mentions place,
person, or purpose, where he is going, or where likely to be; so that I can form no idea how
long I may be deprived of my letters, which are directed to London, to his care.

My dearest Hal, I have kept no journal since I have been abroad but such as could be published
verbatim. I have kept no record of my own life; I have long felt that to chronicle it would
not assist me in enduring it.... Indeed, since I came to Italy, I should have kept no diary
at all, but that my doing so was suggested to me as a possible means of earning something towards
my present support, and with that view I have noted what I have seen, much to my own disgust
and dissatisfaction; for I feel very strongly my own inability to give any fresh interest to
a mere superficial description of things and places seen and known by everybody, and written
about by all the world and his wife, for the last hundred years. Nevertheless, I have done
it; because I could not possibly neglect any means whatever that were pointed out to me of
helping myself, and relieving others from helping me.... I have given up my walk and my dip
in the fountain before breakfast. We ride for three or four hours every afternoon, and a walk
of two hours in the morning besides seemed to me, upon reflection, a disproportionate allowance
of mere physical exercise for a creature endowed with brains as well as arms and legs.... Upon
the whole, we have reason to be grateful for the health we have all of us enjoyed. There has
been a great deal of violent and dangerous illness among the English residents passing the
summer at Frascati and Albano; quite enough indeed, I think, to justify the ill repute of unhealthiness
with which the whole of this beautiful region is branded. Our whole family has escaped all
serious inconvenience, either from the malaria usual to the place or the unusual heat of the
summer; the children especially have been in admirable health and lovely looks, the whole time
we have been here....

God bless you, my dearest Hal! I am afraid that it is true that I often appear wanting in charity
towards the vices and follies of my fellow-creatures; and yet I really have a great deal more
than my outbreaks of vehement denunciation would seem to indicate; and of one thing I am sure,
that with regard to any wrong or injury committed against myself, a very short time enables
me not only to forgive it, but to perceive all the rational excuses and attenuations that it
admits of. I certainly am not conscious of any bitterness of heart towards any one.... I believe
it is only in the first perception of evil or sense of injury that I am unmeasured or unreasonable
in my expression of condemnation--but you know, my dear, suddenness is the curse of my nature....
But my self-love always springs up against the shadow of blame, and so you need pay no heed
to what I say in self-justification. If I am censured justly, I shall accept the reproof inwardly,
whatever outward show I may make of defending myself against it; for the grace of humility
is even more deficient in me than that of charity, and to submit graciously to what seems to
me unjust blame is hitherto a virtue I do not possess at all.

    [After my return to England, I resumed the exercise of my theatrical
    profession; the less distasteful occupation of giving public
    readings, which I adopted subsequently, was not then open to me. My
    father was giving readings from Shakespeare, and it was impossible
    for me to thrust my sickle into a field he was reaping so
    successfully. I therefore returned to the stage; under what
    disadvantageously altered circumstances it is needless to say.

    A stout, middle-aged, not particularly good-looking woman, such as I
    then was, is not a very attractive representative of Juliet or
    Julia; nor had I, in the retirement of nine years of private life,
    improved by study or experience my talent for acting, such as it
    was. I had hardly entered the theatre during all those years, and my
    thoughts had as seldom reverted to anything connected with my former
    occupation. While losing, therefore, the few personal qualifications
    (of which the principal one was youth) I ever possessed for the
    younger heroines of the drama, I had gained none but age as a
    representative of its weightier female personages--Lady Macbeth,
    Queen Katherine, etc.

    Thus, even less well fitted than when first I came out for the work
    I was again undertaking, I had the additional disadvantage of being
    an extremely incompetent woman of business; and having now to make
    my own bargains in the market of public exhibition, I did so with
    total want of knowledge and experience to guide me in my dealings
    with the persons from whom I had to seek employment.

    I found it difficult to obtain an engagement in London; but Mr.
    Knowles, of the Manchester Theatre, very liberally offered me such
    terms as I was thankful to accept; and I there made my first
    appearance on my return to the stage.

    Among the various changes which I had to encounter in doing so, one
    that might appear trivial enough occasioned me no little annoyance.
    The inevitable rouge, rendered really indispensable by the ghastly
    effect of the gaslight illumination of the stage, had always been
    one of its minor disagreeables to me; but I now found that, in
    addition to rouged cheeks, my fair theatrical contemporaries--fair
    though they might be--literally whitewashed their necks, shoulders,
    arms, and hands; a practice which I found it impossible to adopt;
    and in spite of my zealous friend Henry Greville's rather indignant
    expostulation, to the effect that what so beautiful a woman as
    Madame Grisi condescended to do, for the improvement of her natural
    charms, was not to be disdained by a person so comparatively ugly, I
    steadily refused to make a whited sepulchre of that description of
    myself, and continued to confront the public with my own skin,
    looking, probably, like a gypsy, or, when in proximity with any
    feminine coadjutor, like a bronze figure arm-in-arm with a
    plaster-of-Paris cast.

    Before, however, beginning my new existence of professional toil, I
    stayed a few days at Bannisters, with Mrs. FitzHugh and my dear
    friend, her daughter Emily.]

                                        BANNISTERS, Tuesday, 13th, 1846.

You say, my dear Hal, that you see Emily and me perpetually, in various positions, holding
various conversations. Had you a vision of us this morning, by the comfortable fire in my room,
I reading, and she listening to, your letter?...

Thank you, my dear friend, for your flagellatory recipe, which I beg to decline. The sponging
with vinegar and water I do practise every morning, and as I persevere in it until my fingers
can hardly hold the sponge for cold, and my throat is as crimson as if it were flayed, I hope
it will answer the same purpose as lashing myself, which I object to, partly, I suppose, for
Sancho Panza's reasons, and partly because of its great resemblance to, not to say identity
with, the superstitious practices of the idolatrous and benighted Roman Catholic Church.

The amount of medical advice and assistance which I have received since I have been restored
to the affectionate society of my dear Emily and her kind mother is hardly to be told....

I shall not answer your letter seriously: I am convinced it is bad for you. I believe Dorothy
never laughs (you know the Devil in "Faust" says the Almighty never does), and I am satisfied
that what you are languishing for is a little absurdity, which she cannot by any possibility
afford you.

How I wish I was with you! because, though I am no more absurd than that sublime woman Dorothy,
I at least know how to take the best advantage, both for you and myself, of the great gifts
you possess in that line; and the mutual sweetness and utility of our intercourse is, I am
persuaded, principally owing to the judicious use I make of the extraordinary amount of absurdity
it has pleased Heaven to vouchsafe you, my most precious friend.

And so you think I shall have plenty of "admiring friends" for my "gay hours" (!!!!), but shall
be glad to fall back, in my less delightful ones, upon the devoted affection of--you? (Oh,
Harriet, oughtn't you to be ashamed of yourself?)

I have more friends, I humbly and devoutly thank God for them, than almost any one I know;
those I depend upon I can count upon the fingers of one hand, and you are the thumb.

In the useless struggle you persist in making to be reasonable (why don't you give it up? I've
known you hopelessly at it now forty years or thereabouts), you really make use of very singular
and, permit me to say, inappropriate language. After detailing, in a manner that nearly made
me cry and laugh with distress for you and disapprobation of you, all your unnecessary agonies
of anxiety about me, you suddenly rein yourself up with an extra-reasonable jerk, and say that
"the foolish importance you attach to trifles is as great as ever."

Now, my dearest friend, for such you undoubtedly are, allow me to observe that this mode of
speaking of me does not appear to me either reasonable or appropriate. From what point of view
I can appear a trifle to the most partial and rational of my friends, I am at a loss to conjecture.
The parallel seems to me to halt on all its feet. A white, light, sweet, and agreeable article
of human consumption bears, I apprehend, extremely small affinity to a dark, heavy, tart, and
uneatable female. However, if you find that this, to me, singularly distorted mode of viewing
facts assists your hitherto unsuccessful efforts at mental and moral equipoise, I am perfectly
willing to be a trifle in your estimation, or indeed anywhere but on your table.

The pretty, pretty plan you devise for our meeting here during Passion week, dear Hal, is a
baseless vision. Our friends go up to London the week after next, and I do not know when I
shall be able again to stay so far from it.

I have written to Moxon about the publication of my journal, and I received a note from him
this morning, intimating his purpose of visiting me here, in the course of to-day, at which
I feel rather nervously dismayed.... There is a great quantity of it, and I suppose my return
to the stage may perhaps have some effect in increasing its sale.

Emily and I walk every day together, up and down the shrubbery and round the gardens; and innumerable
are the ejaculations of "Oh, how I wish dear Hal was with us!" You are our proper complement,
the missing side of the triangle, and it is unnatural for us two to be together here without you.

Mrs. FitzHugh is certainly a wonderful old woman, especially in her kindliness and happy, easy
cheerfulness....

We drive every day for about an hour in the pony-carriage, and walk again for about half an
hour afterwards....

And now, God bless you, my dearest Hal. I long to see you, and am most thankful for all the
tender, devoted, anxious affection you bestow on me; I am unspeakably grateful to you. Kiss
dear Dorothy for me, and tell her for goodness' sake to exert herself, and either be, or allow
you to be, slightly ridiculous, or she will die of perfection, and you of a plethora of absurdity,
or ridiculousness rentré--struck in, as the French say.

I forgot to tell you that ---- has declined my terms, but offered me others, which I have declined.
I have still two other managers, with one of whom I think I may perhaps be able to come to
some agreement.

Since writing thus far, I have seen Moxon, who has offered me far more than I expected for
my journal before reading it; begging me to let him pay me a portion of it at once, and adding
that if, upon perusal of the manuscript, he thinks his profits likely to warrant his giving
me more than the sum now named, he should not consider himself justified in not doing so by
the fact of his having offered me less.

Good-bye, dearest.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [It is impossible to have been more generous than Mr. Moxon was in
    this whole transaction. While talking about the dealings of
    booksellers with authors, he said that he always bore in mind the
    liberality he had benefited by when, starting in business a poor and
    obscure publisher, he had been munificently assisted by Rogers,
    whose timely aid had laid the foundation of his prosperity. "As I
    was dealt by," he said, "I endeavor to deal by others, and should be
    glad to inspire them with the grateful regard towards me which I
    shall always retain for him." Rogers surely did himself more
    injustice by his tongue than all his enemies put together could have
    done him; his acts of kindly generosity were almost as frequent as
    his bitter, biting, cruel words.]

                                             BANNISTERS, Saturday, 16th.

Yes, my dear Hal, I do intend to correct my own proofs (I thought my proofs corrected me)....

I have just returned from a delightful visit of two hours, which our dear friend Emily contrived
for me, to ----, the dentist! Not content with cheering and soothing my sadder hours with the
number and variety of her medical resources (pills, draughts, doses, potions, lotions, lozenges,
etc.), her ever active and considerate affection hit upon this agreeable method of relieving
my stay at Bannisters of any possible tedium, and two hours of the darkest, dampest, dreariest
winter weather have thus been charmed away through her tender and ingenious solicitude for
my enjoyment.

My dear Hal, what you say about laughing with people, as an instead for laughing at them, is,
like most things you say, frightful nonsense. And what sort of a laugh, moreover, is it that
you offer that unfortunate Dorothy for her feeble participation? Nothing of a healthy, wholesome,
vigorous, vital, individual, personal kind; but some pitiful pretence of wit or humor, having
for its vague or indefinite object ideal or general, abstract, impersonal, or, so to speak,
invisible intangible subjects, wanting all the vivacious pungent stimulus that belongs to real
individual absurdity, and the direct ridicule of it, judiciously and dexterously applied; the
only efficient--I had almost said legitimate--object of a rational creature's amusement. If
Dorothy depends upon you for her entertainment (otherwise than as you involuntarily, unconsciously,
naturally, and simply furnish it to me), I pity her; and if you depend upon her for yours,
I pity you still more--for I doubt if even I, according to my own system, could extract any
from her, she is so painfully unridiculous. You must be deplorably dull together, I am--certain,
I was going to say--satisfied; but that's neither kind nor civil, and I heartily wish for both
your sakes that I was with you.

I am not sure that that visit may not be accomplished yet; for my reappearance on the stage
does not seem likely to take place so very immediately but that I might perhaps contrive to
run down to you for a short time. But, indeed, all my concerns are like so many pennies tossed
up in the air for "heads or tails," and I cannot tell how they will fall, or what results I
may arrive at.

I have been asked to go down to Manchester, to act, and if I have any great difficulty or delay
to encounter in finding an engagement in London, I shall probably do so.... The step I am about
to take is so painful to me that all petty annoyances and minor vexations lose their poignancy
in the contemplation of it (à quelque chose--à bien des choses malheur est bon), and having
at length made up my mind to it, smaller repugnancies connected with it have ceased to affect
me with any acuteness....

Moxon cannot publish my Italian journal immediately, because the whole of the American edition
must be ready to go to press before he brings it out here. I suppose it will come out some
time after Easter. Emily told you of his first offer for it, and of his gallant mode of making
it. He is surely a pearl and a pattern of publishers.

Kiss that facetious "Virgin Martyr" for me. Such a laugh as you two are likely to get up together!
I declare it brings the tears to my eyes to think of it.

I rejoice in your account of H---- W----. It must be a blessing to every one belonging to him
to see him do well such a duty as that of an Irish proprietor, in these most miserable times.

I have at present nothing further to impart to you but the newest news, that I am

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The last sentence of this letter refers to the failure of the
    potato-crop, and the consequent terrible famine that desolated
    Ireland.]

                        10, PARK PLACE, ST. JAMES'S, February 1st, 1847.

I feel almost certain, my dear Hal, that it will be better for me to be alone when I come out
at Manchester than to have you with me, even if in all other respects it were expedient you
should be there. My strength is much impaired, my nerves terribly shattered, and to see reflected
in eyes that I love that pity for me which I shall feel only too keenly for myself, on the
first night of my return to the stage, might, I fear, completely break down my courage. I am
glad for this reason that I am to come out at Manchester, where I know nobody, and not in London,
where, although I might not distinguish them, I should know that not a few who cared for me,
and were sorry for me, were among my spectators. I am now so little able to resist the slightest
appeal to my feelings that, at the play (to which I have been twice lately), the mere sound
of human voices simulating distress has shaken and affected me to a strange degree, and this
in pieces of a common and uninteresting description. A mere exclamation of pain or sorrow makes
me shudder from head to foot. Judge how ill prepared I am to fulfil the task I am about to
undertake....

This, however, is one of the most painful aspects of my work. It has a more encouraging one.
It is an immense thing for me to be still able to work at all, and keep myself from helpless
dependence upon any one.... The occupation, the mere business of the business, will, I am persuaded,
be good rather than bad for me; for though one may be strong against sorrow, sorrow and inactivity
combined are too much for any strength. Such a burden might not kill one, but destroy one's
vitality to a degree just short of, and therefore worse than, death--crush, instead of killing
and releasing one....

I was reading over "The Hunchback" last night, and could not go through the scenes between
Julia and Clifford, when he assumes the character of Lord Rochdale's secretary, without an
agony of crying. I do not see how I am ever to act it again intelligibly, but I suppose when
I must do it I shall. Things that have to be done are done, somehow or other.

God bless you, my dear Hal.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

One word to Dorothy.

Now, my beloved and best Dorothy, haven't you enough to do with that most troublesome soul,
Harriet, without being my "good angel" too? [Miss W---- often went by the name of Harriet's
"good angel."] I have never seen mine; but if I have one, I should think he or she must be
a sort of spiritual heavenly steam-engine, a three-hundred angel-power, in order effectually
to take care of me.

My dearest Hal, I have missed the dear nuisance of your letters so dreadfully these few days
past, that I began seriously to meditate writing to you to know if I had offended you in any
way. As for how I fare in this cold weather, the weather is nothing to me, and I used not to
mind cold at all, but rather to like it; but my flesh is forsaking my bones at such a rate
that I am beginning to shiver for want of covering, and I think to be reduced to a skeleton--a
live one, I mean--while the thermometer is as low as it is will be very uncomfortable.

The satisfaction I had in my visit to my brother was that of seeing a person for whom I have
a very warm affection, and, in some respects, a very sincere admiration. I believe, too, it
was a comfort to poor John to see me and receive the expressions of my love and sympathy....
For his warm heart, his truthfulness and great simplicity of character, his worldly poverty,
his great intellectual wealth, but, above all, for that he is my brother, I love him. He and
his children are living in a poor small cottage, on a wild corner of common near Cassiobury.
How I thought of our old--no, our young days, driving along past "The Grove" and the Cassiobury
Park paling. My brother's present home is certainly not an extravagant residence, and though,
of course, sufficient for absolute necessary comfort (how much comfort is necessary?), is nothing
more.... John has advertised in the Times for a pupil to prepare for college, and should he
be able to obtain one, it would, of course, materially assist him. In the mean time he is working
with infinite ardor and industry upon an important work, the "History of the English Law."
A friend of his, whom I met there, who is, I think, a competent judge, which, of course, I
am not, of any such matter, assured me that the work was one of great erudition and research,
but at the same time so dry and difficult, and therefore little likely to be popular, that
it would not be easy to persuade any publisher to undertake it. He, Mr. B----, carried the
first volume, which is complete, to town with him, to show it to persons capable of appreciating
it, and endeavor to get it a little known, so as to procure an offer for its publication. Poor
John! his perseverance in the studies he loves is very great, his devotion to them very deep,
and if he could only live upon his means with his beloved mistress, Learning, I should think
he had made a noble and honorable choice, however bitterly disappointed my father may feel
at his not choosing to follow more lucrative pursuits.

I am going to act in Dublin. I have neither time nor space for more.

God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     10, PARK PLACE, Friday, 12th, 1847.

Direct to me at Manchester, "Theatre Royal," my dear Hal, that is all; or, indeed, I should
prefer your directing to the Albion Hotel, that same house where you and I were so charmed
by the sunlight on the carpet.

You say I do not know the value of letters. I think I do, for if I had not the very highest
value for them I should long ago have given way to my detestation of writing, and put an end
to my innumerable correspondences. Your letters have more than once been snatched up by me,
and pressed to my lips; so have my sister's.... I hate writing, it is true, but am content
to pay that price for the intercourse of my friends; and though I may not love letters as you
do, I do think I have a reasonable appreciation of their value.

I share in your feeling, dearest Harriet, about my being in Dublin while you are absent from
it. I do not know that it seems to me "wrong," but it certainly does seem as unnatural as that
there should be a theatre open in Dublin at all at this time, when famine and such dire distress
are prevailing in parts of the country.

I am troubled, too, at the uncertainty of how and when we are to meet; and the reason why these
various considerations do not, perhaps, engross so much of my thoughts as they do of yours
is because I have so many immediate and necessarily absorbing claims upon my attention.

I incline with you, however, to think that I shall not go to Dublin. I have not heard again
from the manager, and I begin to hope that he has thought better of his invitation to me. As
my work is a matter of necessity, I could not, of course, refuse an engagement in Dublin; but
it does seem monstrous that there should be people willing to pay for theatrical entertainments
there at this time.

If I do not go I shall lose an opportunity of seeing my brother Henry, which I am looking forward
to with great pleasure--the only pleasure in the whole expedition, since you will not be there,
which will indeed seem most strange and very inappropriate.

Harriet, you certainly have a passion for writing, for in your last you have repeated every
word I said about my brother John, just as if you had invented it yourself. You are like Ariel,
very; and I am like Prospero, very ("Dull thing! I said so"); or, no, I am like Falstaff, to
be sure, and you like Prince Hal, with "damnable iteration." ...

Various of my London men friends threaten coming down to Manchester during my engagement there;
Charles and Henry Greville, Chorley, and even Moxon, who declared, if my play was brought out,
he must be in the pit the first night to see it. [This was my play called "An English Tragedy,"
which there was some talk of bringing out at Manchester.] I dare say the courage of all of
them will give out before this bitter cold, and I shall not be sorry if it does, for I want
no sympathizers to make me pitiful over myself.

I am tolerably well just now, and really believe that when once I am fairly out of the fangs
of the dressmakers I shall gather strength rapidly.

The crudest fact in my fate at present is that I have actually not been able to get all my
things made here, and am taking the materials for my Juliet and Queen Katharine dresses to
be made up at Manchester; and this is horrid, because, but for this, my off evenings would
have really been seasons of rest and quiet. However, it is of no use lamenting over any one
detail of such a whole as this business....

Give my love to dear Dorothy. She is half my good angel, by her own voluntary assumption of
the character....

Do not be troubled overmuch for or about me, my dearest friend; but commend me, as I do you
and myself, to God, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       10, PARK PLACE, Saturday Evening.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I never did, and I never shall, offer anything I write to anybody. If my friends ask me for
anything I write, I will get it for them, just as I would anything else they ask me to get
or to do for them; but I have no idea of volunteering such a bestowal upon anybody. Emily asked
me for a copy of my "Year of Consolation," and I have promised her one, and I will certainly
give you one if you wish for it. As for accounting, by any process of reasoning of mine, for
your desire to have my book, I am quite unable to do so.

My love for my friends would never make me wish to read their books, unless I thought their
book likely to be worth reading. Now, I cannot assume this with regard to my own, especially
as I don't believe it.

Our friends' characters, their love for us, and ours for them, is the stuff of which our adhesion
is made; and unless I had a genius for a friend, I should care little for any other mental
exhibitions from those I loved than those their daily intercourse afforded me. In personal
intercourse, unless a person is a genius, you really get that which is best intellectually,
as well as every other way, from your friend. Even in the case of a great genius, I should
think his daily intercourse likely to be more valuable in an intellectual point of view than
his best works; but then, of such a mind one would naturally wish to possess all and every
product that one could obtain. If I thought myself a genius, I might offer you my books unasked--perhaps.

I shall be at the Albion at Manchester, and if you wish to hear from me, you will do well to
write to me there....

I have had a most terrible day of fatigue and worry, breaking my back with packing my things,
and my heart with paying my bills.

Dear Henry Greville goes to within fifty miles of Manchester with me to-morrow, and stays at
a friend's house, whence he and Alfred Potocki purpose coming on for the play on Tuesday evening.
After all, I am not sorry he is coming; his regard for me is not of a sort to make me dread
the weakening effect of his sympathy, and it will be comfortable to know that among that strange
audience I have just such a kind well-wisher as he is, to keep up whatever courage I have.

Perhaps you may yet see me in Dublin, for the manager wishes me to renew my engagement after
the first six nights; and, of course, if he pays me my terms, I shall be glad to remain there
as long as he likes.

Give my dear love to dear Dorothy. I am thoroughly worn out, and feel quite unwell; and oh,
how cold it will be in that railroad carriage to-morrow!

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                 ALBION HOTEL, MANCHESTER, Monday, 15th.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I cannot tell you exactly all why I dislike writing letters, because my dislike is made up
of so many elements. One reason is that the limits of a letter do not permit of one's saying
satisfactorily what one has to say upon any subject. I think frequently that my letters must
be highly unsatisfactory because of my tendency to discussion, which makes them more like imperfect
essays than letters, the chief charm and use of which is to tell of daily events, interests,
and occurrences; how one is, what one does, where one goes, etc. Now, while I fear my letters
must be unsatisfactory to my friends because they seldom contain details of this sort, they
are still more so to me, because I have neither room nor time in them to say anything about
anything as I wish to say it. Then, I have an indescribable impatience of the mere mechanical
process.

You say that I talk, though I do not write, willingly to my friends, but whenever I get upon
any subject that interests me, with anybody whom I am not afraid of wearying, I talk till I
have said all I have to say; and though I never spoke about anything that I cared for without
afterwards perceiving that I had left unsaid many important things upon the subject while I
spoke, I spoke all that came into my mind at the time. In writing this is never the case, and
fast as my pen flies, it seems to me to stick to the paper; while in speaking, what with my
voice, my face, and my whole body, I manage to convey an immensity of matter (stuff, you know,
I mean) in an incredibly short time. Impatience of all my limitations, therefore, is one cause
of my dislike to letter-writing.

You say that I do not object to conversation, though I do to correspondence: and it is quite
true that I sometimes have great pleasure in talking; but if I had to talk, even upon the subjects
that interest me most, as much as I have to write in the discharge of my daily correspondence,
I should die of exhaustion, and fancy, too, that I was guilty of a reprehensible waste of time.
That I am doing what gives my friends pleasure, and is but their due, alone prevents my thinking
my letter-writing a waste of time. As therefore it is not to me, as to you, a pleasurable occupation
in itself, I do not think it can be compared with "reading Shakespeare, Schiller," or indeed
any book worth reading. The exercise of justice towards, and consideration for, others is a
form of virtue, and therefore letter-writing is, in some cases, a good employment of time.

I have a desire for mental culture, only equalled by my sense of my profound ignorance, and
the feeling of how little knowledge is attained, even by scholars leading the most active and
assiduously studious existences.

My delight in my own superficial miscellaneous reading is not so much for the information I
retain (for I forget, or at least seem to do so, much of what I read), as for the sense of
mental activity produced at the time, by reading; and though I forget much, something doubtless
remains, upon the whole.

Knowledge, upon any subject, is an enchanting curiosity to me; fine writing on elevated subjects
is a source of the liveliest pleasure to me; in all kinds of good poetry I find exquisite enjoyment;
and not having a particle of satisfaction in letter-writing for its own sake, I cannot admit
any parallel between reading and writing (whatever I might think of arithmetic). I have sometimes
fancied, too, that but for the amount of letter-writing I perform, I might (perhaps) write
carefully and satisfactorily something that might (perhaps) be worth reading, something that
might (perhaps) in some degree approach my standard of a tolerably good literary production--some
novel or play, some work of imagination--and that my much letter-writing is against this; but
I dare say this is a mistaken notion, and that I should never, under any circumstances, write
anything worth anything.

I have always desired much to cultivate the accomplishment of drawing; it is an admirable sedative--a
soothing, absorbing, and satisfactory pursuit; but I have never found time to follow it up
steadily, though snatching at it now and then according as opportunity favored me. I give but
little time to my music now (though some every day, because I will not let go anything I have
once possessed); for I shall never be a proficient in it, and I already have as much of it
at my command as answers my need of it as a recreation. Any of these occupations is more agreeable
to me than letter-writing; so is needlework, so is walking out, so is--almost anything else
I could do. Now, as Shylock says, "Are you answered yet?"

I should be sorry my brother Henry went to the trouble or expense of coming over to Manchester
or Liverpool to see me, as there is every probability of my being in Dublin early in March,
where I shall act till the 22nd, and perhaps longer.

I have the privilege of sitting with an engraving of Lord Wilton, in his peer's robes, hung
opposite to me--enough surely for any reasonable woman's happiness....

God bless you, dear; give my love to dear Dorothy. I rejoice for her that the cold is gone.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

My kind friend Henry Greville, and that very charming young Alfred Potocki, brother of the
Austrian Ambassadress, Madame de Dietrichstein, and a great friend of Henry's, came down with
me half way, yesterday; they stopped at a friend's house about fifty miles from Manchester,
and come up to-morrow to see the play, so that I shall have the comfort of people that I like,
and not the trial of people that I love, near me on that occasion.

I am not very nervous about my plunge; the only thing that I dread is the noise (noise of any
sort being what my nerves can no longer endure at all) which I am afraid may greet me. I wish
I could avoid my "reception," as it is called, because any loud sound shakes me now from head
to foot; this is the one thing that I do dread--I have gained some self-possession and strength
in these past years, and I hope my acting itself, as well as my comfort in acting, may benefit
by my increased self-command. Poor Hayes (my maid) says that the peace of being alone with
me, after our late lodging, is like having left Hell; we shall see what she says to-morrow
night at the theatre,--poor thing. Farewell.

                              ALBION HOTEL, MANCHESTER, Wednesday, 17th.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

I acted Julia in "The Hunchback" last night (the first time for thirteen years); got up this
morning with a dreadful cough and sore throat, the effect of over-exertion and exposure; went
to rehearsal after breakfast, rehearsed Lady Macbeth and Juliana in "The Honeymoon" (a dancing
part!); have written to three managers, from whom I have received "proposals;" have despatched
accounts of myself to my father and sundry of my friends; have corrected forty pages of proof
of my Italian journal; have prepared all my dresses for to-morrow; have received sundry visits
(among others, that of a doctor, whom I was obliged to send for), and have wished that I had
not had so much to do.

I am so far satisfied with my last night's experiment, that I think it has proved that my strength
will serve to go through this sort of labor for a couple of years; and I hope during that time,
by moving from one place to another, that my attraction may hold out sufficiently to enable
me to secure the small capital upon which I can contrive to live independently.

The theatre here is beautiful; the company very fair; the plays are well and carefully got
up. The audience were most exceedingly kind and cordial to me, and I think I have every reason
to be thankful, and grateful, and more than satisfied. The manager wants me to renew my engagement,
which is a sign, I suppose, that he is satisfied too.

With affectionate respects to my lord, believe me, my dear Lady Dacre,

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                             MANCHESTER, Thursday, 18th.

I cannot tell how many books have been written by geniuses, dear Hal, and therefore, being
unable to answer the first question in your letter, pass on to the next.

The people that I have to deal with here seem to me very much like all other people everywhere
else. The proprietor and manager of the theatre is an active, enterprising, intelligent man,
who knows the value of liberality, and that generosity is sometimes the most remunerative as
well as amiable and popular line of action. He is a shrewd man of business, a little rough
in his manner, but kindly and good-natured withal, and extremely civil and considerate to me.
He is anxious that I should renew my engagement, and I shall be very willing to do so, on my
return from Dublin.

My stage-manager is a brother of James Wallack, well bred, and pleasant to deal with, and also
very kind and courteous to me. Everybody in the theatre is civil and good to me, and I am heartily
grateful to them all. As for my good host and hostess of the Albion, they really look after
me in the most devoted and affectionate manner, so that I am quite of my poor maid's opinion,
that this is a paradise of peace and comfort compared with Mrs. ----'s lodging-house.

My dressing-room at the theatre is wretched in point of size and situation, being not much
larger than this sheet of paper, and up a sort of steep ladder staircase: in other respects,
it is tidy enough, and infinitely better than the dark barrack-room you remember me dressing
in when I was in Manchester years ago, when I was a girl--alas! I don't mean a pun! It is not
the same theatre, but a new one, built by the Mr. Knowles who engaged me to act here, and one
of the prettiest, brightest, and most elegant playhouses I ever saw; admirable for the voice,
and of a most judicious size and shape. Unfortunately, a large hotel has been built immediately
adjoining it (I suspect by the same person, who is a great speculator, and apt, I should think,
to have many, if not too many, irons in the fire), and the space that should have been appropriated
to the accommodation of the actors, behind the scenes in the theatre, has been sacrificed to
the adjoining building, which is a pity.

If I were to tell you the names of the people who act with me, you would be none the wiser.
The company is a very fair one indeed, and might be an excellent one, if they were not all
too great geniuses either to learn or to rehearse their parts. The French do not put the flimsiest
vaudeville upon the stage without rehearsing it for three months; here, however, and everywhere
else in England, people play such parts as Macbeth with no more than three rehearsals; and
I am going to act this evening in the "Honeymoon," with a gentleman who, filling the principal
part in the piece, has not thought fit to attend at the rehearsal; so that though I was there,
I may say in fact that I have had no rehearsal of it,--which is businesslike and pleasant.

Oh, my dear Hal, I strive to judge of my position as reasonably as I can! I do hope that in
spite of the loss of youth, of person, and feeling (which latter communicates itself even to
acting), I may be able to fill some parts better than I did formerly. I have no longer any
nervousness to contend with--only a sense of the duty I owe to my employers and spectators,
to take the utmost pains, and do my work as well as I possibly can for them.

My physical power of voice and delivery is not diminished, which is good for tragedy; my self-possession
is increased, which ought to be good for comedy; and I do trust I may succeed, at least sufficiently
to be able, by going from one place to another, and returning to America when I have worn out
my public favor here--say, in two years,--to make what will enable me to live independently,
though probably upon very small means.

I write this after my first night's performance, and I trust my views are not unreasonable.
How I wondered at myself, as I stood at the side scene the other night, without any quickening
of the pulse or beating of the heart--thanks to the far other experiences I have gone through,
which have left me small sensibility for stage apprehensions; and yet I could hardly have believed
it possible that I should have been as little nervous as I was. When I went on, however, I
had to encounter the only thing I had dreaded; and the loud burst of public welcome (suggestive
of how many associations, and what a contrast!) shocked me from head to foot, and tried my
nerves to a degree that affected my performance unfavorably through several scenes.

But this was my first appearance after thirteen years of absence from the stage; and, of course,
no second emotion of the kind awaits me. The exertion and exposure of the performance gave
me a violent cold and sore throat, and I have been obliged to send for a doctor. I had two
rehearsals yesterday, which did not mend matters, but I have bolstered myself up pro tem.,
and what with inhaling hot water and swathing my throat in cold, and lozenges and gargles,
etc., I hope to fight through without breaking down.... I have heard from Catherine Sedgwick,
who says that it is a long time since she heard from you or Emily. She adds: "I shall be very
glad to hear from them again. In your absence, I had nothing to give interest to my letters
to them, and I have not written; and they, naturally, had no sufficient motive to write to
me, so that I have been in complete ignorance about them. Harriet S---- I reckon among my friends
for both worlds."

God bless you, my dear Hal. Give dear Dorothy my love.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               MANCHESTER, Tuesday, 23d.

A thousand thanks, my dear Lady Dacre, for all your kind inquiries about, and sympathy in,
my concerns. I am going on prosperously. The theatre is quite full when I play, in spite of
the very bad weather, and I think my employer can afford to pay me, without grudging, my nightly
salary.

I think you are right in saying I am my own best critic; my mother being gone, I believe I
really am so.

I have played, since I last wrote to you, Juliana, in the "Honeymoon," a rather pretty, foolish
part, which I act accordingly; Lady Macbeth, which I never could, and cannot, and never shall
can act; and Juliet, which, I suppose, I play neither better nor worse than formerly, but which,
naturally, I am no longer personally fit to represent.

I am not very well, for the returning to such labor as this after thirteen years' disuse of
it, and at thirty-seven years of age, is a severe physical trial, and has, of course, exhausted
me very much. Nothing more, however, ails me than fatigue, and I have no doubt that a few more
nights' "hard use" will enable me to stand steady under my new load of heavy circumstance.

You have asked me for newspaper reports, and I send them to you. You know my feeling about
such things, but that is nothing to the purpose; if you can care for such praise or dispraise
of me, it is no less than my duty to furnish you with it, at your request, if I can. You know
I never read critiques, favorable or unfavorable, myself; so I do not even know what I send you.

Good-bye. Remember me respectfully and affectionately to Lord Dacre, and believe me ever

                              Yours truly,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                             MANCHESTER, Thursday, 25th.
  DEAR HAL,

Mr. H. F. Chorley I believe to be a great friend of mine, and an uncommonly honest man, but
I may be mistaken in both points. Your inquiry about my health I cannot answer very triumphantly.
I am not well, and my feet and ankles swell so before I have stood five minutes on the stage,
that the prolonged standing in shoes, which, though originally loose for me, become absolute
instruments of torture, like those infamous "boots" of martyrizing memory, is a terrible physical
ordeal for either a tragic or comic heroine--who had need indeed be something of a real one
to endure it.

Some of this trouble is due to general debility, and some to the long-unaccustomed effort of
so much standing, and will, I trust, gradually subside as I grow stronger and more used to
my work....

I acted Juliet last night, and I am very weary to-day, but thankful to have my most arduous
part well over.

Give my love to dear Dorothy. I am very sorry to hear of her being so unwell, for I know how
anxious you must be about her. Thank her for her kind words to me....

God bless you, my dear,

                              I am ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               MANCHESTER, Friday, 26th.
  DEAR HAL,

My throat has given me no more trouble since my first night's acting. I have a pertinacious
cough, and a tremendous cold in my head, which are nuisances; but I am free from irritation
in the throat, and have found hitherto, in my performances, my voice stronger, instead of weaker,
than it was.... I am better than I was last week, and have no doubt I shall acquire strength
as I go on, as my first start in this dismal work did not quite break me down.

The people here have shown me the most extreme kindness and hospitality, and I have had invitations
to dine out every day this week that I have not acted.

My brother Henry has come over from Dublin, to spend a couple of days with me, and his visit
has been an immense pleasure and comfort to me.

My time, thank God, is so incessantly occupied with all kinds of business--writing letters
to managers, acquaintances, and friends; rehearsing, acting, looking after my dresses, correcting
proof-sheets, and receiving visits--that I have no leisure but what I spend in sleep.

Henry has promised to mount me on a horse of his, when I get to Dublin; and I am sure that
my favorite exercise will be of the greatest benefit to me.

The actors here are not more inattentive than they generally are, everywhere, to their business;
their carelessness and want of conscience about it is nothing new to me, and all my bygone
professional experience had fully prepared me for it. The company here is a better one than
I shall probably find anywhere, even in London; and I have the advantage of having to do with
a very civil, considerate, and obliging stage-manager.

I have made, at present, no further engagement for acting here. I shall spend Passion-week
at Sutton Park with the Arkwrights, who have written to beg me to do so, and whose vicinity
to this place makes that arrangement every way best for me, as in Easter-week I am to act in
Manchester again, for the benefit of the above-mentioned courteous stage-manager. From the
12th to the 17th of April, I act at Bath and Bristol; and after that I think it is probable
I shall act for a short time in London,--but this is uncertain.

Your questions, for which you apologize, are particularly agreeable to me, as, in spite of
the ready invention and fluent utterance on which you compliment me, I am always charmed to
have the subject of my letters suggested to me by the questions of my friends.

As my engagement in Dublin, like all the engagements I make, is a nightly one, if it does not
answer to the manager I shall of course immediately put an end to it. I am secured from loss
by payment after each performance but should never think of taking what I do not bring to my
employer.

Mr. Calcraft writes me that he is sanguine about the engagement, in spite of the public distress,
and wants me to leave three nights open after the 22d for the extension of it. We shall see.

God bless you, dear Hal. Give my affectionate love to Dorothy. I am most happy to hear she
is better. The kindness of the Manchester people has filled my room with flowers, my "good
angels," about which I am becoming every day more superstitious, for I am never four-and-twenty
hours in a place that some do not make their appearance, to cheer and comfort me. Farewell.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               BIRMINGHAM, Sunday, 28th.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

I played last night for the last time in Manchester. The house was immensely full, and when
I went on the stage after the piece, so loud and long and cordial were they in their kind demonstrations
of good-will to me that, what with the exhaustion of a whole day's packing (which I have to
do for myself, my maid being utterly incompetent) and the getting through my part, the whole
thing was too much for me, and I turned quite faint, and all but fell down on the stage. But
I am not a fainting woman, and so only went into violent hysterics as soon as I was carried
to my dressing-room. So much for that "pride" which you speak of as likely to prevent my shedding
tears when encountering the kind acclamations of a multitude of my "fellow-creatures;" the
most trying to the nerves of all demonstrations, except, perhaps, its howl of execration.

I came to this place to-day, and feel indescribably cheerless and lonely in my strange inn.
The room at Manchester was the home of a fortnight, but this feels most disconsolately unfamiliar.
Moreover, I only act here one night, Tuesday, and then go to Liverpool, where the master of
the Adelphi Hotel, where I shall stay, is a person to whom I have been known for many years,
in whose house I have been with my children, and where I shall feel less friendlessly forlorn
than I do here.

I shall remain there about a week, and then go to Dublin, where I expect to stay about a fortnight,
and where I shall find my youngest brother--a circumstance of infinite consolation and comfort
to me. Passion-week I spend at Sutton Park with the Arkwrights; after that go to Bath and Bristol,
and then to London, where I have now an engagement for a month at the Princess's Theatre.

You have now the map of my proceedings for the next six weeks, after which I hope I shall see
you in London. I direct this to Chesterfield Street, as you say you shall be back there on
Thursday. I have been kept constantly supplied with the loveliest flowers all the time of my
stay in Manchester, by one kind person or another, which has greatly helped to keep up my courage
and spirits.

Pray give my respects to Lord Dacre.

                    I am ever, my dear Lady Dacre,
                              Yours truly,
                                                                  FANNY.

                    ADELPHI HOTEL, LIVERPOOL, Thursday, March 4th, 1847.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I do not go to Bath, but to Manchester, on the 25th and 27th, and perhaps on the Monday of
Passion-week; but this is not certain. If not on that Monday, then early in Easter-week; and
Passion-week I shall spend with Mrs. Arkwright at Sutton.

On Thursday in Easter-week, April 8th, I must be in London, as I act there for two nights gratuitously
for your poor starving fellow-countrymen, for whom an amateur performance is being got up.

On April 15th I go down to Bath, and act there on the 17th, and my engagement at the Princess's
Theatre does not begin till the 26th of that month. This is the plan of my campaign as far
as it is laid out; should any change occur in it, I will let you know as soon as I know of
it myself.

And so your plan for my taking the air, my dear, was to get into a close fly. I confess that
would not have occurred to my ingenuity, or I should think to that of any but an Irish humorist.
I don't feel sure that there mayn't be a pun hidden somewhere in your proposition. The damp,
indeed, I might have taken, to the greatest perfection, for there did stand a whole row of
vehicles before my very windows at Manchester which were being saturated through and through
with the rain that fell upon them all day long, and must have adapted them admirably for the
purposes of a healthful drive for an invalid suffering from sore throat and a heavy cold.

I have nothing to say to your impertinent remarks on my zigzag progress to my various engagements,
neither any observation to make about Emily's information upon the subject of my white cashmere
gown.

I am perfectly persuaded that, as a considerable amount of food goes into one's stomach, the
use of which is merely to produce necessary distension of all the organs, channels, receptacles,
machinery, etc., in short; so a considerable amount of words proceeds out of our mouths, the
use of which is merely to keep our lungs aired and our speaking organs in exercise; and for
that purpose the follies, and foibles, and even faults of our friends are excellent material,
provided no bitterness mixes in the process; from which, as I feel myself very safe between
you and Emily, I abandon myself absolutely to you both; and as I believe scribbling (apparently
unnecessary) is as necessary to the health of both of you as the apparently superfluous food
and words which people swallow and utter, I am quite content you should fill up your paper
with the mad eccentricity of the order of my engagements, the rotation of my gowns, and the
dripping street-cabs in which I refuse to take the air for the benefit of my health....

I do not know who the amateurs are who are to act for the starving Irish with me in London.
Forster, the editor of the Examiner, I hear, is one; Henry Greville, who, indeed, is the getter-up
of the whole thing, another; but for the rest I do not know.

Your people are what are commonly called a generous people; and that, I suppose, is why they
don't mind begging. I think it takes an immensity of generosity to beg.

Only think of Mr. Radley, here at the Adelphi, expressing his surprise, when he saw me, that
you were not with me! Was not that really quite touching and nice of him?

My cousin, Charles Mason, is here.... His amiable temper and gentle manner made him a favorite
with my poor mother, and I like to see him on that account....

How sorry I shall be for both you and Dorothy when your pleasant time at Torquay is over! especially
for you, who will have to see misery and sometimes hear nonsense. I mean when you go back to
Ireland; not, of course, while you are with me....

                                  ADELPHI HOTEL, LIVERPOOL, Sunday, 7th.

I have minded what you said (as when didn't I?), and am swallowing ipecacuanha lozenges by
the gross. It drives me almost crazy that you should be compelled to make your plans so dependent
upon mine, which are so dependent upon the uncertain wills and arrangements of so many people.

The manager of the Princess's Theatre, where I am engaged to act in London, will not allow
me to act for the proposed charity at the St. James's Theatre. I offered to give up the engagement
with him rather than break my promise to the amateurs and disappoint all their plans; but he
will not let me off my engagement to him, and will not permit me to appear anywhere else before
that takes place. I think he is injuring himself by balking a pet plan of amusement in which
all manner of fine folks, lady patronesses, and the Queen herself, had been induced to interest
themselves; and I think his preventing my acting for this charity will injure him much more
than my appearance on this occasion, before my coming out at his theatre, could have done.
But, of course, he must be the judge of his own interest; and, at any rate, having entered
into an engagement with him, I cannot render myself liable to squabbles, and perhaps a lawsuit
with him, about it. All these petty worries and annoyances torment and confuse me a good deal.
I have a very poor brain for business, and there is something in the ignoble vulgarity and
coarseness of manner that I occasionally encounter that increases my inaptitude by the sort
of dismay and disgust with which it fills me. If the person who has hired me does not relent
about these charity representations, I shall be obliged to give them up, and then I shall act
in Manchester at that time, instead of on the 25th and 27th of March, which had been before
intended, but which I now think I should give to two representations in Chester on my way back
from Dublin. All this, you see, is still in a state of most vexatious uncertainty, and I can
give you no satisfaction about it, having been able to obtain none myself....

Perhaps, dearest Hal, I ought not to have asked you the precise meaning of what you wrote about
dear little H----[her nephew, a charming child, who died in early boyhood], but, every now
and then, those expressions which have become almost meaningless in the mouths of the great
majority of those who use them strike me very much when used by thinking people.

Unless death produces in us an immediate accession of goodness (which, I think, in those who
have labored faithfully to be good here, and are therefore prepared and ready for more goodness,
it may), I cannot conceive that it should produce greater nearness to God.

Place, time, life, death, earth, heaven, are divisions and distinctions that we make, like
the imaginary lines we trace upon the surface of the globe. But goodness, surely, is nearness
to God, and only goodness; and though I suppose those good servants of His who have striven
to do His will while in this life are positively nearer to Him after death, I think it is because,
in laying down the sins of infirmity that inevitably lodge in their mortal bodies, they really
are thus much better after death.

I do not think this is the case with those who have not striven after excellence, which a young
child can hardly be supposed to have done; because if there is one thing I believe in, it is
that there is work to do for every soul called into conscious existence.... If Dorothy were
to die, I should believe she had gone nearer to God. His care and love for us is, I verily
believe, the nearest of all things to us; but I think our conscious nearness to Him depends
upon how we do His will--i.e. how we strive to do it.

I do not speak of Christ in this discussion, because, you know, I think it was God's will,
but man's nature, that He came to show us, and to teach; and this part of the subject would
involve me in more than I have space to write: but we will speak of this hereafter.

Is it not strange that Charles Greville and you should both be writing to me just now upon
this same subject, of life after death?

I have been walking to-day and yesterday in the Botanical Garden here.... The place is full
of the saddest and tenderest recollections to me; it is full, too, of innumerable witnesses
of God's mercy and wisdom; plants and flowers from every climate, and the annual resurrection
of the earth is already begun among them. I am very unwell to-day, but I was well yesterday,
and this seems to be now the sort of life-tenure I may expect:--so be it.

God bless you, dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

  DEAR DOROTHY,

I send you a kiss, which Hal will give you for me.

                             MORRISON'S HOTEL, DUBLIN, March 14th, 1847.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I think you must have begun to think that I never meant to write to you again; for it is seldom
that three unanswered letters of yours are allowed to accumulate in my writing-book; but since
I left Liverpool, I have really not had leisure to write....

The houses at Liverpool were crammed, but here last night there was a very indifferent one,
partly, they say, owing to the fact that the Lord Lieutenant bespeaks the play for to-morrow
night; but I should think it much more rational to account for it by the deplorable condition
to which the famine has reduced the country, which ought to affect the minds of those whose
bodies do not suffer with something like a sympathetic seriousness, inimical to public diversions....

I do not care to pursue the argument with you about the change produced by death in the existence
of a child. That which you say about it appears to me to involve some absolute contradictions;
but I would rather postpone the discussion till we meet.

Charles Greville began writing to me upon these subjects, with reference to the rapidly declining
health and strength of his and my friend, Mary Berry; over whose approaching death he lamented
greatly, although she is upwards of eighty years old, and, according to my notions, must be
ready and willing to depart.

Charles Greville's ideas, as far as I can make them out, appear to me those of a materialist.
His chief regret seems to be for the loss of a person he cared for, and the departure of a
remarkable member of his society. Beyond these two views of the subject he does not appear
to me to go.

He has sent me, in the last letter I received from him, an extract from one of Sir James Mackintosh's,
on the death of his wife, which he calls a "touching expression of grief," but which strikes
me as rather a deplorable expression of grief without other alleviation than the dim and doubtful
surmise of a mind the philosophy of which had never accepted the consolations of revelation,
and yet, under the pressure of sorrow, rejected the narrower and shallower ones of stoical
materialism.

You wish to hear of my arrangement with my cousin, Charles Mason, and I will tell you when
it is decided on....

I have had a note from your sister, asking me to dine with them any day after the 16th, when
they expect to come to town; but I have declined the invitation, because I do not wish to give
up dining with my brother Henry, who comes to me every day when I don't act....

It seems strange that you should ask me if uncertainty, torments me. It torments me SO that
I never endure it, even when the only escape from it is by some conclusion that I know to be
rash and ill-advised.

"The woman who deliberates," says the saying, "is lost." My loss has been, and ever will be,
through precipitation, not deliberation. To choose anything, a gown even, is a martyrdom to
me, and, unlike the generality of my sex, I generally go into a shop, wishing to look at nothing,
and knowing only the precise color, material, and quantity of the stuff I mean to purchase;
for if I were to leave myself the smallest discretion--option, we will say (I can hardly leave
myself what I haven't got)--I should infallibly buy something revoltingly ugly, out of mere
impatience of the investigation and deliberation necessary to get something that pleased me.
It is to save myself from the trouble of choice that I have made so many arbitrary and, to
your thinking, absurd rules about the details of my daily life; but they spare me indecision
about trifles, and I find it, therefore, comfortable to follow them.

I am at Morrison's hotel; the rooms are clean, comfortable, and cheerful, but the fare is bad
and far from abundant; but if the charges are meagre in proportion, I shall be satisfied, if
not with food, at least with equity.

My friend Arthur Malkin is here, as secretary to one of the members of the committee sent out
from England to organize relief for your wretched countrymen. He is good and clever, and it
is a great pleasure to me to have him here. I am sorry Mr. Labouchère [afterwards Lord Taunton]
is away in Parliament. I wished particularly to have met him.

Lord Bessborough was at the play last night, and sent, after it was over, to invite me to the
St. Patrick's ball on Wednesday; but I have declined, as I do not feel at all well enough for
dissipations that would bore as well as tire me. I am told he means to ask me to dine at the
Castle, which I rather dread, as it is not, I believe, allowable to refuse a representative
of majesty; but I dread the exertion and the tedium of the thing, and have a particular dislike
to the notion of meeting ----....

Good-bye, my dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Our total ignorance of the laws of health and the accidents of
    sickness throws us necessarily for help upon the partial knowledge
    of physicians; but I am often reminded of what that admirable
    physician and charming man, Dr. Gueneau de Mussy, once said to me:
    "Madame, nous ne savons rien." "Ah mais!" remonstrated I, "cependant
    quelque chose?" "Absolument rien, madame," was the consolatory reply
    of one of the first medical men of Europe, under whose care both I
    and my sister then were, and to whose skilful and devoted care I
    attribute the preservation of my sister's life under circumstances
    of great peril.

    The amateur performance given at the St. James's Theatre was Lord
    Ellesmere's translation of Victor Hugo's "Hernani," which had been
    acted sixteen years before under such very different circumstances,
    as far as I was concerned, at Bridgewater House. Mr. C---- was again
    the hero, as I the heroine, of the piece, but the part of Don Carlos
    was filled by Henry Greville, and that of the old Spanish noble by
    Mr. John Forster.

    It was upon this performance that Mr. Macready passed such
    annihilating condemnation, not even excepting from his damnatory
    sentence of total incapacity his friend and admirer, John Forster,
    whose mode of delivering the part of Don Ruez bore ludicrous witness
    to Macready's own influence and example, if not direct teaching.

    Macready does not even mention poor Forster; the entry in his diary
    runs thus: "Went to the amateur play at the St. James's Theatre; the
    play "Hernani," translated by Lord Ellesmere, was in truth an
    amateur performance. Greville and Craven were very good
    amateurs, but--tragedy by amateurs!"

    The recital of a very graceful and touching poetical address,
    written by Lady Dufferin for the occasion, was part of the evening's
    work assigned to me, and as I was so weak and suffering from my late
    severe illness as to be hardly able to stand, it was with a sense of
    having certainly done my share in the evening's charity that I
    brought my part of the performance to a close.

    While standing at the side-scene before going on to speak this
    address, dear Lord Carlisle brought me a most exquisite bunch of
    flowers, saying, "I know I ought to throw this at your head from the
    front of the house, but I would rather lay it at your feet here."

    He then, to my great amazement, proceeded to spread out my satin
    train for me with a dexterity so remarkable that I asked him where
    he had served his apprenticeship. "Oh, at Court," said he, "at the
    drawing-rooms, where I have spread out and gathered up oceans of
    silk and satin, thousands of yards more than a counter-gentleman at
    Swan and Edgar's." He certainly had learned his business very well.

    After leaving Dublin I entered into an arrangement with my cousin,
    Charles Mason, to become my agent, and make my engagements for me,
    undertaking the necessary correspondence with the managers who
    employed me, and looking after my money transactions with them for
    me. I stood greatly in need of some such assistance, being quite
    incompetent to the management of any business, and ignorant of all
    the usual modes of proceeding in theatrical affairs, to a degree
    that rendered it highly probable that my interests would suffer
    severely from my ignorance. My cousin, however, only rendered me
    this service for a very short time, as he left England for America
    soon after he undertook it; after which I reverted to my former
    condition of comparative helplessness, making my contracts with my
    employers as well as I could, and protecting myself from loss, and
    keeping out of troublesome complications and disputes, by the light
    of what natural reason and rectitude I possessed; always making my
    engagements by the night, and thus limiting any possible loss I
    might sustain or inflict upon my employers, to my salary and their
    receipts, for one performance. I also reduced my written
    transactions to the very fewest and briefest communications
    possible, with my various theatrical correspondents, and have more
    than once had occasion to observe that precision, conciseness, and a
    rigid adherence to mere statements of terms, times, and purely
    indispensable details of business, were not the distinguishing
    features of the letters of most of the men of business with whom I
    corresponded.]

                          QUEEN'S HOTEL, BIRMINGHAM, Saturday, May 29th.
  MY DEAR HAL,

How did you get through that dreary time after we parted? I did so repent not having left some
of my "good angels," my flowers, with you; for though you do not care for them as I do, I love
them so much that I think they would have seemed part of myself to you. What a vision remained
to me of your lonely stay in that horrid room! But the day passed, and its sorrow, as they
all do; and when this reaches you, you will be comfortable and rested, and among your own people
again.

From Liverpool to Crewe I had companions in the ladies' carriage in which I was; after that
I had it to myself, and lay stretched on the ground for rest the whole of the rest of the way.

I finished Dr. Mays's memoir, and read through half Harriet Martineau's book, before I reached
this place.

Women are always said to talk more than men, and yet I have generally observed that when Englishwomen
who are strangers to each other travel together, not a single word is exchanged between them;
while men almost invariably fall into discourse together. This, I suppose, is partly from the
want of subjects of general interest among women, such as politics, agriculture, national questions
of importance, etc., which form excellent common ground of conversation for chance companions;
while the questions of human society and considerations which concern men and women alike may
be too important or too futile, too general or too special, to admit of easy discussion with
strangers. The fact is, that most women's subjects of interest are so purely personal and individual
that they can only be talked over with intimates.

I like Harriet Martineau's book very much, though perhaps not quite so much as I expected.
What pleases me best is its spirit, the Christian faith in good, which is really delightful;
though I cannot help thinking she mistakes in supposing that one must be very ill before one
believes in God's sole law, good, more almost than in one's own existence.

The descriptions of natural objects are admirable, and the human loving-kindness excellent;
but I think she pushes her propositions sometimes to the verge of paradox.... I am delighted
to have it, and think it better reading than the Dublin Magazine.

I got here at a little after three. The house is upside down with cleansing processes, by reason
of which I am put (till a smaller one can be got ready for me) into an amazingly lofty large
room, with some good prints hung on the walls, and a pianoforte; seeing which privileges, I
have declined transferring myself to any other apartment, and shall be made to pay accordingly.

Tell me of your errand to the theatre at Liverpool, and how you spent the day, and how the
sea treated you, and everything about everything.

God bless you, my dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                        BRISTOL, Sunday, May 30th, 1847.

A thousand thanks, dear friend, for Liebig's book. You are right, I want something more to
read. I finished Harriet Martineau (Oh, what ink! wait till I get some better) yesterday evening
before tea, and the pamphlet on bread after I got into bed, and the "Liverpool Tragedy" (such
a thing!) this morning in the railroad; so that your present of Liebig's book came to my wish
and to my need, just as a gift from you should do; and I shall spend this Sunday afternoon
in learning those wonderful things, and praising God for them.

I regret very much that I cannot recollect anything distinctly that I read, because the consequence
is that books of an order calculated to be of the greatest use to me, books of fact and positive
scientific knowledge, are really of less advantage to me than any others, because of their
making no appeal to what I should call my emotional memory, and so they only profit me for
the moment in which I read them. Works of imagination, of criticism, of history, and biography
(even of metaphysical speculation), leave more with me than treatises of positive knowledge
or scientific facts. From the others, a spirit, an animus, a general impression, a mental,
moral, or intellectual accretion, remains with me; indeed, that is pretty much the whole result
I obtain from anything I read. But books of knowledge, of scientific or natural facts, though
they sometimes affect me beyond the finest poetry with an awe and delight that brings tears
to my eyes, have but one invariable result with me, to add to my love and wonder of God. Their
other uses depend, of course, upon the memory which retains and applies them subsequently,
either in action or observation; and this I fail to do, by reason of forgetting: and it is
a sorrow and a loss to me, because the whole world is in some sort transfigured, and life endowed
with double significance, to those who are familiar with the details of the wonderful laws
that govern them, and their self-communion must be as full of variety and interest as their
conversation is to others.

I have infinite respect for knowledge; it is only second in value to wisdom, and to unite both
is to be very fortunate--which word I use advisedly, for, though the nobler of the two, wisdom
is allowed to all, knowledge is not.

I agree with you in what you say of Harriet Martineau's book: the good in it is her peculiar
good (very good good it is, too), but it must be taken with the shadow of her bad upon it.
It seems to me occasionally a little hard and dogmatical, and I have not liked it, upon the
whole, as much as I expected, for it is rather less Christian than I expected; yet it is a
very valuable book, and I was very thankful for it.

I shall send the recipe for making effervescing bread forthwith to Lenox, to Catherine Sedgwick,
who is a martyr to dyspepsia and bad baking, and who, being herself an expert cook, will know
how to have the staff of life prepared from these directions, so as to support instead of piercing
her, as it mostly does, up among those country operators. They never have good bread there,
and are all miserable in consequence, especially herself and her brother Charles, who have
delicate stomachs and cannot endure the heavy sour concoction which they are nevertheless obliged
to swallow by way of daily bread. (I almost wonder how they manage to say the Lord's Prayer
petition for it.)

The note you forwarded me from Liverpool was another scream from that mad manageress about
Macbeth. I wonder if her whole life is passed in such agonies; I think it must be worse than
the greatest bodily pain.

Only think, my dear, on arriving here, and inquiring for Hayes, I recollected that I had sent
her to Bath and not to Bristol! "Consekens is," as Mr. Sam Weller says (but alas for you! you
don't know Pickwick), that I have had to send off a porter from this house to Bath, per railway,
to reclaim my erring maid, and fetch her hither; and, being Sunday, fewer trains go between
the two places than usual, and she cannot get here till near four o'clock this afternoon, until
which time I dare not trust myself to think of the state of mind of the abandoned (in the perfectly
honest sense of the word) Bridget or Biddy Hayes; indeed, I shall not get her here till six
this evening, and I only hope that I may then.

What a moon there was last night! and how it made me think of you, as it shone into the dark
lofty room at Birmingham, where I sat playing and singing very sadly all by myself! The sea
must have been as smooth as glass, and you cannot have been sick, even with your best endeavor.

The road from Birmingham here is quite pretty; the country in a most exquisite state of leaf
and blossom; the crops look extremely well along this route; and the little cottage gardens,
which delight my heart with their tidy cheerfulness, are so many nosegays of laburnum, honeysuckle,
and lilac.

The stokers on all the engines that I saw or met this morning had adorned their huge iron dragons
with great bunches of hawthorn and laburnum, which hung their poor blossoms close to the hissing
hot breath of the boilers, and looked wretched enough. But this dressing up the engines, as
formerly the stage-coach horses used to be decked with bunches of flowers at their ears on
Mayday, was touching.

I suppose the railroad men get fond of their particular engine, though they can't pat and stroke
it, as sailors do of their ship. Speculate upon that form of human love. I take it there is
nothing which, being the object of a man's occupation, may not be made also that of his affection,
pride, and solicitude, too. Were we--people in general, I mean--Christians, forms of government
would be matters of quite secondary importance; in fact, of mere expediency. A republic, such
as the American, being the slightest possible form of government, seems to me the best adapted
to an enlightened, civilized Christian community, a community who deserve that name; and, you
know, the theory of making people what they should be is to treat them better than they deserve--an
axiom that holds good in all moral questions, of which political government should be one.

This hotel is charming, clean, comfortable, cheerful, very nice.

Farewell. Give my kind regards to your people, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

MY DEAR HAL,

Go to Atkinson's and Co., 31, College Green, Dublin, and Pay £8 13s. for my sister, and get
a receipt for it, and send it to me, and do this just as fast as ever you love me--that is,
this very minute. I will repay you when we meet, or as much sooner as you may wish.

I have this morning received a note of eleven lines from Rome from Adelaide, without one single
word of anything in it but a desire that I will immediately pay this debt for her; not a syllable
about her husband, her children, herself, or any created thing, but Messrs. Atkinson and Co.,
and £8 13s. Therefore do what she bids me, and I ask you "right away," as the Americans say,
that I may send this afflicted soul her receipt, and bid her be at rest.

That they are still in Rome I know only by the address, which she does put, though not the
date; as a compensation for which, however, she heads her letter with the sum she wishes me
to pay, thus--

  Rome, Trinita dei Monti.
  £8 13s.

--a new way of dating a letter, it strikes me. She must have had poplin on the brain.

I wrote to you yesterday, my dear, and therefore have little to say to you. After all, I had
directed my poor maid perfectly write! (look how I've spelt this, in the tumult of my feelings
and confusion of my thoughts!), and she arrived, but not till three o'clock in the afternoon,
paper in hand, with the direction I had myself written as large as life--"The Great Western
Hotel, Bristol." The fact is that I had made so sure that she would be here before I was, that,
not finding her on my arrival, I made equally sure that I had misdirected her to Bath, and
despatched one of the hotel porters thither to hunt for her, which he did, sans intermission,
for two hours, and on his return had the pleasure of finding her here. What a capital thing
a clear head is, to be sure! At least, I imagine so....

I have just come back from rehearsal at the theatre, where I found a letter from Emily, containing
a bad account of her mother, and a most affectionate, cordial, illegible scrawl from poor dear
old Mrs. Fitzhugh herself.

I also received a letter from Henry Greville, full of strictures upon my carriage and deportment
on the stage, and earnestly entreating me to suffer his coiffeur ("a clean, tidy foreigner")
to whitewash me after the approved French method, i.e., to anoint my skin with cold cream,
and then cover it with pearl powder; and this, not only my face, but my arms, neck, and shoulders.
Don't you see me undergoing such a process, and submitting to such "manipulation"?

I have read more than half through Liebig, and am always tempted to glance at the paragraphs
ahead to see what wonders they contain. I have not yet consulted the last chapter for the "winding-up
of the story." The marvels in the midst of which we exist are a "story without an end."

I find some of his details of "quantity" a little puzzling sometimes, but nothing else, and
the book is delightful.

Charles Mason drank tea with me last night, and talked well, and with a good deal of information,
about chemistry. He has read somewhat, and has some superficial knowledge of various subjects;
moreover, is a judge of physiognomy, for he said he never saw a countenance with a more beautiful
expression of goodness than yours. Evidently, like Beatrice, he can "see a church by daylight."
Isn't it a pity that he can no longer be my agent? Were you not struck with his great resemblance
to your idol, John Kemble? My mother used to say he was more like his son than his nephew;
and never having seen his uncle even, the curious collateral likeness showed itself in all
sorts of queer tricks in his delivery and deportment on the stage, where, in spite of his resemblance
to his celebrated kinsman, he is a most lamentable actor. Of course, being an educated man,
he speaks with "good discretion;" of the "emphasis" the less said the better.

I go to Bath to-morrow morning, and remain there until Thursday, when I return here to act
Lady Macbeth and then go back again to represent that same lady at Bath either Friday or Saturday.

Farewell, my dear. God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               BATH, Wednesday, June 2d.

I have just had a long visit from Mr. C----, who is here, and who came to see me this morning
with a young niece of his--a fair, sweet-looking girl of about eighteen, who, strangely enough,
asked me a good many questions about my affairs.... At the end of their visit, I found that
the young lady, while talking and listening to me, had torn up a visiting-card and, with the
fragments of it, put together on the table the outline of a tiny Calvary, the cross upon a
heap of rocks. I suppose she is a Catholic, like her uncle, and I wonder why so many religious
people of all sorts and denominations take it for granted that others stand in need of "Hints
to Religion." ...

I was reminded (unnecessarily) of you at the theatre yesterday evening when, immediately after
the hateful stage-warning at my dressing-room door of "Overture on, ma'am!" (the summons to
the actors who are to begin a piece), I heard the orchestra break forth into your favorite
strain of "Sad and fearful was the story." ...

The instinctive horror of suffering of our poor human bodies is pitiful. What a sorry martyr
I should have made! though I think I should not so much object to others inflicting pain upon
me as to inflicting it upon myself,--that seems to me such an absurd and disagreeable work
of supererogation, I should never have been a self-body-torturer for the salvation of my soul....

You would have been amused yesterday evening if you had been at the theatre with me. The weather
was so beautifully bright that I could not bear to shut the shutters and light the gas, so
I dressed by the blessed light of heaven, and was sitting all rouged and arrayed for my part,
working, with my back to the window, when a small mob of poor little ragged urchins, who had
climbed over a railing that separated the theatre from a mean-looking street behind it, collected
round it, and, clambering on each other's shoulders, clustered and hung like a swarm of begrimed
bees at the window, which was near the ground, to enjoy the sight of me and my finery. Bridget,
who is kind-hearted and fond of children, turned the dresses that were hanging up right side
out for the edification of the poor little ragamuffins, and their comments were exceedingly
funny and touching. We could hear all that they said through the window--how they wondered
if I put them beautiful dresses on one by one, or over each other; the rose in my hair, which
you gave me, and the roses in my shoes, made them scream with delight; and if you could have
heard the pathetic earnestness with which one of them exclaimed, "Oh my! don't you wish them
ere windies was cleaner!" for the dirt-dimmed glass obstructed the full glory of the vision
not a little. Poor little creatures! my heart ached with compassion for them and their hard
conditions, while they hung and clung in ecstatic amazement at my frippery.

The house at Bristol the first night was wretched, my share of it only £14; here last night
it was much better, but I do not yet know the proceeds of it. Charles Mason has latterly dropped
a hint or two about intending shortly to go to America, so that I dare say he will be quite
prepared to terminate his present arrangement with me.

In the railroad, coming from Bristol to Bath, I met Edward Romilly, a kind and pleasant acquaintance
of mine. I had Liebig's book in my hand, which he said was rather severe railroad reading,
and proceeded to enlighten me as to the unsoundness of some of the author's positions and deductions.
Now, you know, Edward Romilly married Mrs. Marcet's daughter, and, I take it for granted, in
virtue of such a mother-in-law, is wise upon natural philosophy; but still, when one's ignorance
is as huge and one's faith as implicit as mine,--when one's one endless, supreme question about
everything is Pilate's bewildered, "What is Truth?"--when from history, science, literature,
art, nature, one receives every impression with the child's yearning query, "But is it true?"
it makes one feel desperate and deplorable thus to have one teacher contradict and discredit
another. After all, all knowledge by degrees turns to ignorance, as it were, by dint of more
knowledge; and human progress, passing from stage to stage in its incessant onward flight,
leaves deserted, from day to day and hour to hour, its temporary abiding-places. There is no
rest for those who learn, and ignorance is a great deal more complete and perfect a thing,
here, at any rate, than knowledge; with which paradox let me hug my ignorance, only regretting
that I ever spoiled it by learning even so much as my alphabet.

In spite of Mrs. Marcet's son-in-law, I have finished Liebig, and now have only "Wilhelm Meister"
to read, which is one of the most wonderful books that ever was written. I have read it often,
and each time I do so I think it more wonderful than before. Do you remember poor Mignon's
last song?--"Sorrow hath made me early old, make me again for ever young!" No wonder you love
youth, my dear; in heaven there are no old people.

The gardens in which this house stands are exquisite, and full of lovely children, who are
a perpetual delight to me.

Good-bye, my dear.

                                                 BATH, Friday, June 4th.
  DEAR HAL,

... I have just spent a delightful hour with three charming little creatures, children of the
master of this hotel, for whom I have been buying toys, and who have been amusing themselves
with them and allowing me a time of enchanting participation.

I drove this morning, because you told me to do so, through the piece of ground they call the
park here. It is extremely pretty, and I never grow weary of admiring the orderly love of beauty
of our people.

I have had another long visit from Mr. C---- this morning.... Certainly novelists invent nothing
more improbable than life.

I had an explanation with Charles Mason yesterday afternoon, and he did not appear at all annoyed
at my intention of discontinuing our present arrangement. I shall give up to him the entire
receipts for one night, as else I am afraid he will hardly do more than cover his expenses.
Then--the money that worthy man at Liverpool borrowed from me, which I shall assuredly never
see again, and my travelling and living expenses deducted--my clear gains for this fortnight
will be £68. It is not much, but all that much better than nothing. I shall be in town next
week, and had intended, at the end of it, to go down to Bannisters; but Emily writes me that
they cannot have me then, so I shall probably go to Plymouth, where they want me to act, and
after that return to town again, and organize some more country engagements for myself; for
I can't afford to be doing nothing. I go to town to-morrow morning, and shall be glad to be
at home again. I am writing with a vile iron pen, that has neither mind, soul, nor body.

God bless you, dear. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       ROYAL HOTEL, PLYMOUTH, June 16th.
  MY DEAR HAL,

Do not again put that sponge, saturated with that stuff, in your letters. The whiff of it I
got accidentally in one I received some days ago was very pleasant, but the quantity you send
me to-day is too much, and has given me a headache, and made me sick. Such virtue is there
in proportion! Such immense difference in only more or less!

You bid me lump my answers to you, but I hate to do that. I cannot bear to defraud you in quantity,
though inevitable necessity condemns me to the disparity of quality in our communications;
but to give you poor measure in both seems to me too bad....

I shall act here on Friday, and leave for Exeter on Saturday, and I shall act there one or
two nights, but I do not yet know precisely how often. I expect to be in London by the end
of next week, and to remain there for a week, after which I shall probably go for some nights
to Southampton, so that, in a sort of way, I shall see Emily, and she will see me; further
than this I have not at present decided. I have yet to visit the Midland Counties, where I
have had engagements offered me, and York, Sheffield, and Leeds; after which I shall probably
go on to Scotland. But all this is at present without fixed date.

Some time in the summer, I have promised to visit the C----s (Roman acquaintances of ours)
at Brighton; and I shall stay some time in Scotland at a place called Carolside, with that
very nice Mrs. Mitchell, with whom I am fast growing into a fast friendship. We shall be a
strange company of widows at her house--herself, T---- M----, poor Emily de Viry, and poorer
myself.

These are my floating plans for the summer. Of course you will hear into what specific arrangements
they consolidate themselves by degrees.

All the theatres where I act--indeed, as far as I can see, all the theatres throughout the
country--are Theatres Royal; and with very good reason, for they are certainly all equally
patronized by royalty.

I forgot to tell you that before leaving London, I carried your bag, i.e. my worsted-work,
to your nephew's lodging, beseeching him, in a civil note, to take charge of it for you. I
have received a civil note from him in reply, professing his readiness to do so, but adding
that he will not be in Dublin till the dissolution of Parliament, which will not take place
till the middle of July; in reply to which, I wrote him another civil note, telling him I would
apprise you of this, and then you could either leave the bag in his custody, till he went to
Ardgillan, or inform him of any method by which you might choose to have it forwarded to you
more immediately.

I am not satisfied with the way in which it is made up; my own work was thick and clumsy enough,
and I think they have finished the bag with a view to matching, rather than counteracting,
these defects in the original composition. However, its value to you I know will be none the
less for this; though, as I also know you are very particular, I wish it had been more neatly
and lightly finished. I have put the strip of worsted-work you wished preserved inside the
bag, and would humbly advise you to cut it up for kettle-holders, for which purpose it appears
to me infinitely better adapted than for the housewife you proposed to make of it. However,
you know I am shy about giving advice, so never mind what I say....

The weather is cold, rainy, windy, in short, odiously tempestuous; in spite of which I went
into the sea yesterday, and shall do so every day while I am here; the freshness of the salt
water is delicious.

Now, at this present moment, when I was about to close this letter, comes another from you,
and I shall lump that in this answer; for 'tis absurd merely to wait till to-morrow that I
may take up another sheet of paper to write to you upon, when in all human probability I shall
have nothing new whatever to tell you.

I find that Charles Mason has made arrangements for me with the Exeter manager, and that I
shall act there four nights, and therefore be there all next week, and only return to London
next Saturday week. This was in contemplation when I came here, but had not been determined
on until to-day.

I have had a very affectionate letter from Lady Dacre, asking me to go down to the Hoo and
stay some time with them, which I will do between some of my coming engagements.... No, my
dear Harriet, you cannot imagine, and I cannot say, how I shrink from demonstrating a great
deal of the affection that I feel; there are no words or sign adequate to it that I should
not be reluctant to use, and I think this is at variance with the unhesitating and vehement
expression of thought and opinion, and mere impression that is natural to me: but we are all
more or less compounded of contradictions, and I more than less.

At the Exeter Station, coming down to this place, an obliging omnibus or coach driver offered
to carry me to Torquay if I was bound thither. Wouldn't it have been nice if I had said Yes,
and you and Dorothy had still been there? but you weren't, so I said No.... Both the Grevilles
are friends of ours. Henry has been very intimate with Adelaide for a long time. He has a great
many good qualities, and, though essentially a society man, has a good deal of principle; he
is not very clever, but bright and pleasant, and very amiable and charming. His brother Charles
has better brains, and is altogether a cleverer person. He is a man of the world, and more
selfishly worldly, I think, than Henry, whose standard of right is considerably the higher
of the two; indeed, Charles Greville's right always appears to me a mere synonym for expedient,
and when I tell him so, he invariably says "they are the same thing," which I do not believe.
He is, unfortunately, deaf, but excellent company in spite of that. I met him the day before
I left London, at dinner at Lady Essex's, and he told me he and Lord de Maulay were going to
start next week on a riding tour through England, beginning with Devonshire. I think it very
probable that I shall see him in Exeter next week, as he is to be at the Duke of Bedford's
in that neighborhood. He talked eloquently of the beauty of the scenery they were going through,
and very seriously urged me to join their party, and ride over England with them, saying it
would be a delightfully pleasant expedition--of which I have no doubt, or of the entire propriety
of my joining it, and "cavalcading" through Great Britain in his and Lord de Maulay's company.

Now I'll tell you what I've done to-day--my holiday. In the first place it poured with rain
all the morning, so I sent for a pair of battledores and a shuttlecock, and when Charles Mason
came to render up last night's account, I made him come into a beautiful large ball-room I
had discovered in this house, and took a good breathing; and he, being like Hamlet, "fat and
scant of breath," took it hard.

                              NEW LONDON INN, EXETER, Monday, June 21st.
  DEAR HAL,

Thanks for the purse, which I received this morning. I think you must imagine these country
managers pay me as the monks did Correggio, in copper; perhaps, too, you have visions of me
carrying my pay home on my back, as he did. (I forget whether that sad story is among the traditions
exploded by modern truth.)

You have not received my last letter from Plymouth, or you would not have sent me again this
tremendous "smell." I beseech you, dear Hal, not to saturate your paper any more with Neroli,
or whatever you call it; it gives me a headache, and turns me sick.

My present address is as above, and I shall remain here until Saturday morning, when I return
to town.

I only like the leather purse because you have given it to me, and though that makes me love
it, it does not make me like it--my preference is for the pretty, colored, delicately woven
purses, through whose meshes the gold and silver smiles and glances, that you see me use, or
abuse, as you think, and as their use is to be worn out, I am not much afflicted at their dropping
into holes, and in due process of time fulfilling their destiny.

This inn is in the middle of the town, and an old, dingy, dull house; and I have an old, dingy,
dark sitting-room, and the only trees I see are two fine felled elm trunks, which I have been
industriously sketching.

The cathedral here is a grand old church, and I went yesterday afternoon to service there;
but the choir was full, so I sat on a sort of pauper's wooden bench, just outside the choir,
and under the beautiful porch that forms the entrance to it; and heard the chanting, but nothing
else. I had Hayes with me, and she earnestly entreated me to sit with my feet upon hers, to
protect myself from the cold stone pavement; was not that touching and nice of her? I am sure
I ought to be grateful for such a comfort as she is to me. Poor thing! she has been in great
trouble about her mother. When she was in Ireland she took a small sum of about ten pounds,
which belonged to her mother, and placed it in the hands of an aunt of hers, in whom she had
implicit trust, wishing to withdraw the money from the possible risk of its being got from
her mother by her brother, who lives with her,--he being selfish and unprincipled and likely
to take it, and her mother affectionate and self-denying and likely to give it to him. And
now poor Hayes gets word from her mother that her aunt says she can neither give her money
nor money's worth, owing to the badness of the times; which of course troubles my poor maid
very much, for she says her aunt is a woman of substance. However, she does not seem to think
the money will ultimately be lost to her mother, but only inconveniently withheld for a time.

At Plymouth, I had a very kind and pressing invitation from Lady Elizabeth Bulteel--Lord Grey's
daughter, whom I have known for some time--to go and stay at her pretty place, Flete, two miles
from Plymouth; but having to come on here, I could not go to her, which I was very sorry for.
She sent me the most exquisite flowers, which I brought away with me, and which are still consoling
me here.

Good-bye; God bless you, my dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                            NEW LONDON INN, EXETER, Wednesday, June 23d.

I do not plead guilty to general inconsistency, but only to particular inconsistency, in a
particular instance, dear Hal.... You are quite welcome to accuse me of it, however; but as
in your last letter you imply that I accept the accusation, I beg leave to state distinctly
that I do not.... Not, indeed, that I make any pretensions to that order of coherency of action
and opinion which is generally called consistency: my principles are few, simple, and comprehensive,
and I rather desire so to embrace them with my heart, mind, and soul, that my conduct may habitually
conform to them, than am careful in every instance of action to see whether I am observing
them. Somebody said very well that principles were moral habits; and our habits become unconscious
and spontaneous: and so I think should our consistency be, and not a sort of moral rule or
measure to be applied and adjusted to each exigency as it occurs, to produce a symmetrical
moral appearance.

I think one reason why I appear, and perhaps am, inconsistent is because I seldom have any
consideration for expediency--what I should call secondary rules of conduct; and I have not
much objection to contradicting my course of action in the present hour by that of the next,
provided at each time I am endeavoring to do what seems best to me. I desire a certain frame
of mind that my conduct may flow habitually from it, without constant reference to outward
coherency. In the course of life-long endeavor and practice, I suppose, this may be achieved.
But do not think me presumptuous if I say that I think people are generally too afraid of appearing
inconsistent, too desirous to seem reasonable,--in short, more anxious upon the whole about
what they do than what they are. Of course, the one will much depend upon the other; but they
will match well enough without an everlasting comparison of shades of color, if they are really
in harmony, and, at all events, will certainly harmonize even if they do not precisely match:
there's a woman's shopping illustration for you.... Of course you will understand well enough
that I have not referred to the capital inconsistency of which poor St. Paul so pathetically
complained--wishing to do right and doing wrong,--nor would you have charged me individually
and specially with this, alas! universal moral incoherency.

This is my holiday, and I have been spending it between two famous nursery-gardens in the neighborhood
of Exeter, and the cathedral.

These great gardeners send up their exquisite and precious plants to the London horticultural
exhibitions, and I saw many for whose beauty and variety gold and silver medals had been awarded
to their foster-father florists. The masters of both these establishments very courteously
went over them with me, showing me the hot-houses where their choicest and rarest plants were
kept; there were some, such exquisite and wonderful creatures, lovely to the eye, delicious
to the smell--Patagonians, Javanese, from the Cordilleras, from Peru, from Chili, from Borneo,--the
flower tribes of the whole earth.

Then, again, they showed me little pots of fine sand, covered with bell glasses, where the
eye could hardly detect a point or shade of sickly green upon the surface,--the promise of
some unique foreign flower, sent from its savage home in the forests of another hemisphere,
to blossom at the Chiswick horticultural exhibition, and win medals for the careful cultivators,
who have watched with faith--assuredly in this case "the evidence of things not seen"--its
precarious growth and doubtful development.

One of these gentlemen horticulturists interested me extremely by his own fervent enthusiasm
about his plants. He showed me two perishing-looking miserable dried-up twigs, and said, "Those
are the only specimens of their kind in the kingdom. They come from Chili, and when healthy
bear a splendid blossom as large as a tulip. These are just between life and death: I fear
we may kill them with kindness, we are so anxious about them." He told me they had a flower-hunter
out in South America, and another in India. And now I must go to bed, because it is twelve o'clock.

I brought home some heavenly flowers from these earthly paradises, and then went and spent
the rest of my afternoon in the cathedral--a beautiful old building, of various dates and architecture,
the whole effect of which is extremely picturesque and striking.

Good-night, my dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   ORCHARD STREET, Tuesday, August 24th.

Rachel has been acting at Manchester, to houses of sixty pounds (her nightly salary being one
hundred and twenty), and this because Jenny Lind is going there. I must confess I have no patience
with this--as if the rich Manchester merchants could not afford to treat themselves to both!
Rachel is really pre-eminent in her art, and so this provokes me.... I dined with the Miss
Berrys at Richmond on Wednesday, and met dear old Lady Charlotte Lindsay, who inquired as usual
most affectionately after you. Mrs. Dawson Damer dined there, too, and said she remembered
being as a very young girl at Wroxton Abbey (Lord Guildford's), and seeing you there a very
young girl too.

I began this letter two days ago, and am in all the full wretchedness of packing up. I set
off to-morrow for Mrs. Mitchell's, where I hope to be on Thursday afternoon. I shall reach
York to-morrow, at three o'clock, and intend sleeping there, of which I have written to apprise
Dorothy, as I hope to see her for an hour or two in the evening.

I am obliged to give up my Norwich engagement, which I am very sorry for; but the fast and
loose style of the correspondence about it makes it impossible to fix any time for going there.
The manager first asked me to go there in August, but now, because Jenny Lind is going there,
he wants to put me off till the third week in September, at which time I expect to be in Glasgow,
the manager of that theatre having written to me thence that October is not a good month there,
and begged me to come in September. I am sorry to lose my Norwich engagement, but cannot help
it. I have heard nothing more from the Princess's Theatre.

... My father talks of giving up his readings, and I have therefore spoken to Mitchell, of
the St. James's Theatre, about giving some myself, and find him very willing to undertake the
whole "speculation" and business, not only in London but all over the provinces, with me and
for me; so that I do not feel quite as uncomfortable about the uncertainty of an engagement
at the Princess's as I might have done.

Mr. Mitchell is a Liberal, and an honest man, too, and I shall be quite safe in his hands;
in the mean time I shall be very glad to be at Carolside instead of in London, though to-day
and yesterday the weather has been very cold and chilly, and in Scotland is not likely to be
warmer.

Do you hear of this horrid murder in Paris [that of the Duchesse de Praslin, by her husband]?
Ever so many people that I know here knew the unhappy woman and her still more wretched husband;
and the woman who has been accused of having instigated the crime was little Lady Melgund's
governess for six years.

Good-bye, my dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Mademoiselle de Luzzy, the governess of the Duc de Praslin's
    children, was acquitted upon his trial of any complicity in his
    crime; that of which she was not acquitted, however, was, turning
    the hearts of her pupils against their unfortunate mother, and
    endeavoring to establish her position and authority in the duchess's
    home and family, at her expense. By a most strange turn of
    circumstance, Mademoiselle de Luzzy, thus connected with the great
    world of Paris and implicated in one of its most tragic occurrences,
    went to the United States, where she married a country clergyman,
    whose family belonged to the peaceful population of Stockbridge--one
    of the loveliest villages in the "Happy Valley" of the Housatonic.
    The residence of the Sedgwick family in this charming place
    attracted to it many foreigners of mark and distinction; but few,
    certainly, whose claims to notoriety were so peculiar and painful as
    this lady's.

    Mrs. Mitchell, of Carolside, was a Scotchwoman of an Aberdeen
    family. She was my dear friend for many years, and a perfectly
    charming person. Her face was exquisitely pretty and her figure
    faultless; she had very peculiar eyes of a lightish hazel, with such
    long lashes that it seemed occasionally as if her eyes were shining
    through a soft haze of golden brown rays. She spoke with a slight
    Scotch accent, the "winning Scottish speech" which Secretary Philips
    writes of as one of Mary Stuart's peculiar charms; and she was
    personally my notion of that "much blamed, much worshipped" modern
    Helen. She had remarkable decision of character and force of will,
    with the gentlest and most feminine appearance and manner; she was
    humorous and witty, and an incomparable mimic. She was a woman of
    admirably high principle and rectitude, and in every way as
    attractive as she was estimable. Her eldest son was proprietor of a
    charming place, Carolside, just over the Scottish border, and had
    hardly come of age and inherited it when the Crimean war broke out
    and compelled him, then a young officer in the army, to leave his
    pleasant home prospects and encounter the threatening aspect of
    "grim-visaged war." His mother, whose widowed life had been devoted
    to him and his younger brother, also a soldier, fluttered after her
    dear ones to the Crimea, and had the joy to get them safe back from
    the "world's great snare uncaught."

    Lady M---- and Mrs. Mitchell were attached and almost inseparable
    friends for many years, occupying the same house in London,
    travelling on the Continent together, and when in Scotland living
    together at Mrs. Mitchell's pretty home, Carolside, or hiring some
    house in the Highlands together. Emily de Viry (afterwards, alas!
    Emily de Revel) I met again, for the first time for many years, at
    Carolside. She was the daughter of our friends Mr. and Mrs. Basil
    Montague, and half-sister of my kind friend Mrs. Procter, and a very
    intimate friend of my sister Adelaide. She was an extremely
    interesting person, the tragic close of whose life can never be
    thought of without profound regret. She had married her cousin Count
    Charles de Viry, and after years of widowhood she married again the
    Count Adrien de Revel, Sardinian Ambassador in England, to whom she
    had not been united a week when they were both carried off by the
    cholera, which was then raging in Genoa: the same paper which
    announced their marriage brought the tidings of their untimely death
    to me. During this visit of mine to Carolside M. de Revel came there
    for a few days; I was well acquainted with him, and liked him very
    much.]

                                      CAROLSIDE, EARLSTON, Sunday, 29th.

I am no more in London, my dear Hal, but in one of the sweetest places I ever was in, which,
as you know, is a great delight to me.

I am only just beginning to recover from the effects of the journey hither, which, though divided
into two days, made me very unwell.... Surely, you never meant, in spite of my invariable habit
of replying to all your questions, that I should ever attempt an answer to that suggestion
of your love and sorrow which, in speaking of your brother [Barry S----, dead many years before],
makes you exclaim, "What now is his nature?" ...

I have been sorrier to think of the death of Dr. Combe than I was to hear of it, when, as is
always the case with me, my first feeling was one almost of joy and congratulation. I never
have any other emotion on first hearing of a good man's death. I have an instantaneous sense
of relief, as it were, for such a one, of freer breathing, of expanded powers; of infirmity,
pain, sorrow, trouble, fleshly hinderance, and earthly suffering for ever laid in the grave
and left behind; and that glorious creature, a noble human soul, soaring into a purer atmosphere
proper to it, and promoted to such higher duties as may well be deemed rewards for duties well
fulfilled on earth.

After a little while I began to cry, thinking of that sweet, beaming, intelligent, benevolent
countenance, that I am never to see here again; but this was crying for myself, not him. I
am truly grieved for his brother, and all who knew, and loved, and have lost so excellent a friend.

I have a paper in my possession still, which he laughingly drew up and gave me when I was a
girl in Edinburgh, a sort of legal document, binding him to appear to me after he was dead;
and one or two evenings, as I lay on my sofa alone in Orchard Street, I thought of this, and
could not help fancying that if indeed it had been possible he could have appeared to me, the
familiar trust and affection with which I always regarded him would have been paramount to
all fears and wonders in the first moment of my seeing him.

I have heard nothing more of my engagement at the Princess's Theatre, and begin to think that
perhaps I shall not hear anything more about it; but I scarcely expected to do so before the
end of November, because till then I should not be wanted there, and I dare say the manager
will leave me as long a time as possible to consider of his offers and my acceptance or rejection
of them.

I am charmed with my hostess. She is exceedingly pretty--a great virtue, as you know, in my
estimation; she is upright, true, pious, and uncommonly reasonable and judicious: am I not
right to be charmed with her? Then, too, she is most kind, gentle, considerate, and affectionate
to me, and esteems me, as I believe I have before told you, far beyond my deserts--who can
resist that bribe?

Upon several points upon which I differ from people's usual modes of thinking and feeling,
I find there is a great similarity in our views; and I feel as if I might thank God for an
addition to the treasure of excellent people's love that He has comforted my life withal; and
count another friend added to those who have been such infinite blessings to me.

I am left to conclude that Mrs. Grote was so absorbed in her interest in Mademoiselle Jenny
Lind that I vanished utterly from her mind; for after coming to see me just before I went down
to Bannisters and pressing me to go to the Beeches when I returned, I never heard another word
about it, or even set eyes upon her again.

I have been with your precious Dorothy, who came, both to my joy and sorrow, to meet me at
the railroad station, with her poor face covered with that hideous respirator, and speaking
when she had it off as if she still had it on, her voice was so pale and dim. It grieved me
that she should have made an exertion that I feared might injure her, and yet I was delighted
to see her and most grateful for her extreme kindness in thus troubling herself. She came,
too, with her hands full of flowers (my "good angels" brought to me by your "good angel," which
seemed to me pretty and proper, was it not?), and carried me straight off to Fulford [Miss
Wilson's home near York], where, in spite of much pain and exhaustion consequent upon the long
railroad journey, I passed a blessed few hours with her, though our talk inevitably was of
much sorrow....

I have not had time yet to see anything of the condition of the people about this place. The
villages and cottages we passed coming hither all struck me as poor and comfortless compared
with England; but the less cleanly and tidy habits of the Scotch, and their almost universal
practice of going barefoot--at least the women and children,--give an impression of greater
poverty and discomfort than really exist, I believe.

I have not yet received my American letters.... I am to act three nights at Glasgow. I think
Kelso is the town nearest Carolside, and that is fourteen miles distant; the post town or village
is Earlston (Ercildown), a mile from the house. The whole region belongs to poetry and legend
and romance. The Eildon hills overlook it, and Thomas the Rhymer haunts it, and the Scotch
ballads are full of it.

Then there is that lovely ditty "Gala Water," which I always sing in honor of my young host,
who is a sort of Laird of Galashiel. The whole place is full of such charming suggestions and
associations. The Leader, a lovely, clear, rapid, shallow, sparkling trout-stream, makes a
sudden bend across the lawn, opposite the drawing-room and dining-room windows here (last October
the pixie got vexed at something and very nearly rushed in to the house); and early before
breakfast this morning I walked along the banks of the stream, and then knee deep up its bright
waters, and then over the breezy hills, "O'er the hills, amang the heather," whence I watched
its gleaming course between red-colored rocks, like walls of porphyry or Roman tufa, and through
corn-fields, and by tufted woods, and felt for an hour as if there was no bitterness in life....

I shall remain here till September 11th, when I go to Glasgow, where I expect to act on the
13th. I shall be very sorry to go away, but shall certainly by that time have had enjoyment
enough to feel that it would be unwise to tempt the inevitable decree which makes all pleasure
and happiness short-lived here, and which, when we strive to retain or detain them, makes us
wise through some disappointment or disenchantment, which it is still wiser to anticipate and
avoid.

Farewell, dear Hal.

                              I am ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Carolside was situated just beyond the Border in Scotland, in that
    region of romantic and poetical traditions, full of the charm of
    early legendary and ballad lore, of the associations of Burns's
    songs and Scott's Border minstrelsy, pervaded with the old
    superstitions, half-beliefs, dating from as far back as the days of
    Thomas the Rhymer, and the later powerful influence of the Wizard of
    the North, the mighty master-magician of our own day.

    Melrose, Dryburgh, and Abbotsford, Smailholme, and Beamerside, were
    all within easy distance of it; "the bonnie broom of Cowdenknowes"
    bloomed in its neighborhood; the Gala, the Leader, the Tweed, the
    Yarrow, ran singing through the lovely region, the exquisite
    melodies that have been inspired by their wild scenery. It was a
    region of natural beauty, heightened by every association that could
    add to its charm. The Eildon Hills were our landmarks in all our
    walks and rides and drives: and Ercildown, modernized into
    Earlston, the picturesque post-village at our gates.]

                                     CAROLSIDE, EARLSTON, September 5th.
  MY DEAR LADY DACRE,

... Of the advantageous engagement which you heard I had concluded I cannot speak with any
certainty, for it never was settled definitively, and I begin to think will not be concluded.
I think it may have been nothing more than a feint on the part of the manager of the Princess's
Theatre, who has been urged by Mr. Macready's friends to engage me to act with him, and who,
as he will not give me my terms, has, I think, perhaps merely tendered me an arrangement that
he knew I would not accept, in order to be able to say that he had endeavored to make an arrangement
with me. I am very sorry for this, for employment during the winter months in London is what
I much desired. However, "there is a soul of good even in things evil," and the later experiences
of my life have left me little sensibility to spend upon crosses of this description.

Not to be able to work for my own maintenance would indeed be a serious calamity to me; but
if I fail of a theatrical engagement I shall fall back upon my original plan, to me so far
preferable, of giving readings. I do not think that now, after a whole year of apparent relinquishment
of that pursuit, my father has any thought of resuming it, which leaves me free to make the
attempt.

I am staying with a friend at a place on the Scottish Border; the Leader, famous in song, runs
across the lawn; we are four miles from Melrose, and about as many from Abbotsford; the country
is lovely, and full of poetical and romantic associations.

I remain here another week, and then go to Glasgow, where I am to act; after that I expect
to pass three weeks in Edinburgh, between my two cousins, Cecilia Combe (whom you remember
as Cecy Siddons) and a daughter of my dear friend Mrs. Harry Siddons, who married Major Mair,
and is living happily and prosperously in beautiful Edinburgh.

I must either act or give readings during this time, as I can in no wise afford to be idle.

It was a great disappointment to me to boil by B----'s very door on my way here [Miss Barbarina
Sullivan, Lady Dacre's granddaughter, now the Hon. Lady Grey], but my plans had been all disarranged
and confused by other people, and I was most unwillingly compelled to pass by Howick. I have
written to offer myself to her in the last week of October on my way back to London, and heartily
hope she may be able and willing to receive me, as I long to see her in her new home.

Pray give my kind regards to Mrs. Brand. You ought to be of the greatest use, comfort, and
pleasure to each other, endowed, as you both are, with the especial graces of age and youth.

With affectionate respects to Lord Dacre, believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Miss Susan Cavendish had married the Hon. Thomas Brand, Lord
    Dacre's nephew and heir. When I wrote this letter young Mr. and Mrs.
    Brand lived a good deal at the Hoo with my kind old friends.]

                                     CAROLSIDE, EARLSTON, September 5th.

You ask me what I am doing, dear Hal. I am driving fifteen miles in an open britzska, in a
bitter blowing day, to return morning calls of neighbors, whose laudable desire is to "keep
the county lively," and who have dragged my little hostess into active participation in a picnic
at Abbotsford, which is to take place next Friday, the weather promising to reward the seekers
after "liveliness" with their death of cold, if they escape their death of dulness.

I have taken several charming rides; the country is beautiful. I have caught a tolerably good
cold--I mean, good of its kind--by wading knee deep in the Leader, and then standing on cold
rocks, fishing by the hour; in which process I did catch--cold, but nothing else; for, though
the water is still drowning deep in some beautiful brown pools, set in the rocks like huge
cairngorms, it is, for the most part, so shallow, and everywhere so clear with the long-continued
drought, that the spotted trout and silver eels see me quite as well as I see them, and behave
accordingly, avoiding me more successfully, but quite as zealously, as I seek them....

Our party has hitherto consisted of Emily de Viry, an uncle and brother of Mrs. Mitchell's,
and a London banker, a friend of hers. This, with the "liveliness" of the neighborhood, with
whom we have dined, and who have dined with us, has been our society.

Next week Lady M----, who has been on a visit at Dunse Castle, returns, and various people
are coming from sundry places; but, except the Comte de Revel, I do not know any of those who
are expected.

The only music I have is my own, forbye a comic song or two, gasped and death-rattled out by
poor old Sir Adam Fergusson, whom I met seventeen years ago at Walter Scott's house, and who
is still tottering on, with inexhaustible spirits, but a body that seems quite threadbare,
tattered, and ready to fall in pieces with long and hard use.

I do not read to the party collectively, but occasionally to Emily de Viry alone, who has asked
me once or twice to read her favorite poems of hers, of Wordsworth's, Tennyson's, and Milnes's....

I act in Glasgow on Monday, to-morrow week. On Sunday I shall be in Edinburgh, and shall go
and see Cecilia and Mr. Combe. I am sorry you didn't see Mrs. Mitchell, for, though forty years
old, she might be fallen in love with any day for her good looks only. She is my notion of
what Mary Stuart must have looked like, but she is a marvellous wise and discreet body--mentally
and morally, I should think, very unlike the bonnie Queen of Scots.

Did I tell you that one place where we dined was Cowdenknowes? and I felt like singing "The
Bonnie Broom" all the time, which would have been an awful accompaniment to the gastronomic
enjoyments of the "liveliness of the county." Good-bye, my dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     GLASGOW, Wednesday, September 15th.

I do not know what my friend's religious opinions are. She was brought up in the midst of strict
Presbyterians, but I suspect, from some things I have heard her say, that she is by no means
an orthodox sample of that faith. But, you know, I am never curious about people's beliefs,
nor anxious that my friends should think as I do upon any subject. The resemblance between
Mrs. Mitchell's notions and mine was one that she was led to express quite accidentally on
a matter on which few women would agree with me....

I have not heard from Adelaide for a long time--a month at least. The Comte de Revel, the Sardinian
Ambassador, was at Carolside while I was there, and spoke of the condition of the whole of
Italy as full of insecurity, and liable at any moment to sudden outbreaks of violent and momentous
change.

I cannot think that Rome will be a desirable residence for foreigners this winter; but E----
is so indolent that, unless people are massacred in the streets, and, moreover, in the identical
street in which he lives, I should much doubt his being willing to move, or thinking it at
all necessary to do so. I saw the old Countess Grey and Lady G---- just before they left London
about three weeks ago. They were intending to winter in Rome, and told me they were much dissuaded
by their friends from doing so.

If you leave Ireland, as you say, on the 1st of October, I am afraid I shall not see you in
London, for I expect to pass the whole of that month in Edinburgh; but I hope I shall find
leisure to come to St. Leonard's, and see you and Dorothy while you are there.

My plans are at present a little unsettled. I think of going back to Carolside with Mrs. Mitchell
and Lady M---- until next Monday, when I shall return to Edinburgh, and from thence proceed
to act four nights at Dundee; after that I shall be stationary in Edinburgh for, I hope, at
least three weeks. I think I shall not act there, but have some thoughts of giving readings....
Good-bye, my dear.

                              I am ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                   DUNDEE, Thursday, 2d.
  MY DEAR HAL,

Your letter directed to me to Greenock never reached me. I did not go there; and having left
Glasgow without doing so, shall not visit that place at all now.

I arrived yesterday in Dundee, having left Edinburgh in the morning. I act here two nights,
and two in Perth, and return to Edinburgh on Wednesday week to remain with Elizabeth Mair (youngest
daughter of Mrs. Harry Siddons) till the last week in October. After that I go southward to
visit B---- G---- at Hawick, and the Ellesmeres at Worsley.

Your letter about sleeping in Orchard Street, on your way through London, is so very undecided--I
mean upon that particular point--that I shall write to Mrs. Mulliner (my housekeeper) to desire
her to receive you, if you should apply for a lodging, so that you can do as you like--either
go there or to Euston Square.

I am delighted at the prospect of my three weeks' stay in Edinburgh. Nothing could exceed the
affectionate kindness with which Lizzie and her husband received me.

After all that I have seen at home and abroad, Edinburgh still seems to me the most beautiful
city I ever saw, and all my associations with it (except those of my last stay there) are peaceful
and happy, and carry me back to that year of my life spent with Mrs. Harry Siddons, which has
been the happiest of my existence hitherto.... Elizabeth's children are like a troop of angels,
one prettier than another; I never saw more lovely little creatures. The companionship of children
is charming to me. I delight in them, and am happy to think that I shall live among Lizzie's
angels for three weeks. I was living with children at Carolside. Emily de Viry had her little
boy and girl with her, the latter a little blossom of only a year old, born, poor thing! after
her father's death. Mrs. Mitchell's eldest son was at home from Eton for the holidays, a very
fine lad of sixteen, devoted to his mother, who seems to me only to exist through and for him
and his brother.... I am to act while I am in Edinburgh, which, of course, is a good thing for me.

E---- has written to Henry Greville to take the house in Eaton Place which they looked at together
when he was in London, so I feel sure they will be home in the spring. Adelaide has written
a letter to Henry Greville, which he has sent on to me, assuring him of that fact.... She is
enchanted at the idea of coming home. Good-bye, my dear. I will write this minute to Mrs. Mulliner
to put you in my room, if you go to Orchard Street.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          PERTH, Monday, September 27th.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I do not understand your note of the 15th, which has only just reached me here on the 27th.
You ask me if I "have not written to Lizzie Mair to ascertain her whereabouts." Lizzie is in
Edinburgh. I spent the Monday and Tuesday of last week with her, and return there the day after
to-morrow, after acting two nights in this lovely place, whither I came on from Dundee yesterday.
I shall remain three weeks with Lizzie, and shall see Cecilia and Mr. Combe during some part
of that time; for, though they did not return to Edinburgh, as I supposed they would on Dr.
Combe's death, they are expected home daily now, and will certainly be there in the first days
of October. I wrote from Dundee to Mulliner to make up my bed and do everything in the world
for you that you required; and I wrote to you from Dundee, telling you that I had done so.
I have now again this minute written to the worthy woman, reiterating my orders to that effect;
so sincerely hope you will be properly attended to in my house. Jeffreys, I am sorry to say
(sorry for my sake, glad for his), has found an opportunity of placing himself permanently
with a gentleman with whom he lived formerly, and has written to tell me of this; so that you
will not have his services while you are in Orchard Street. He was an excellent, quiet, orderly
servant, and I am sorry I shall not have the advantage of his service during the remainder
of my time here.

I am engaged to act with Mr. Murray in Edinburgh for ten nights, from the 16th to the 25th
of October. Before that I shall return for three nights to Glasgow, where my last three nights
were very profitable, and the manager wishes to have me again. This will probably be next week,
the 5th, 6th, and 7th of October. Perhaps I may go for a night or two to Greenock from Glasgow
before I return to Edinburgh, but this is uncertain.

From the 12th to the 15th I am going with Mrs. Mitchell, who will take me up in Edinburgh to
visit the H---- D----s at Ardoch, and after that shall be stationary for ten days.

                                                   PERTH, Tuesday, 28th.

In spite of my innate English horror of untidiness, and my maid's innate Irish tendency to
it, I should be very sorry if she were to leave me. She has lived with me many years, and I
really love as well as esteem her. She has been more than a servant--she has been a friend
to me; and I cried some tears at Carolside at the thought of parting with her....

I will tell you another point of agreement between Mrs. Mitchell and myself, which I also discovered
accidentally. Emily de Viry was laughing at her for a peculiar mode of dress she has adopted,
always wearing a cap upon her pretty head, and never uncovering her arms and neck, though both
are beautiful, in evening dress. I was appealed to for my opinion about the costume of middle-aged
gentlewomen, and could, of course, only state that it had been my own determination for some
years past never to uncover either my arms or neck, or wear any but sober colors as soon as
I was forty years old. This is one of those trivial points of agreement which sometimes indicate
more resemblance between people's natures than a similarity of opinions on important matters,
which may co exist with considerable difference in matters of taste and feeling. Mrs. Mitchell,
like myself, does not think that stark nakedness would be indecent among decent savage people,
but does object to full-dress semi-nudity among indecent civilized ones.

Lady M---- did not come with me to Dundee. I would not let her, though her proposal to do so
was certainly dictated partly by her affection for me.... But I would not let her come with
me strolling, though I should only have been too glad of her company. She paints beautifully....
Alas! an empty heart is a spur and goad to drive one to the world's end, unless the soul be
full of God, and the mind and time of wholesome occupation.

The Mairs are excellently kind to me, and I look forward to my stay with them with great pleasure.
Cecilia and Mr. Combe are expected daily in Edinburgh, so I shall lose little or nothing of them.

I am just disappointed of a charming opportunity of seeing the lovely country round Perth.
Lady Ruthven has sent me a very pressing invitation to spend some days at Freeland, seven miles
from here; but I am obliged to return to Edinburgh to-morrow, for which I am very sorry, as
I should have liked to go to Freeland, the whole neighborhood of which is beautiful. Good-bye.
God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                 29, ABERCROMBIE PLACE, EDINBURGH, Saturday, October 2d.
  DEAR HAL,

I received a note from Mrs. Mulliner yesterday morning, expressing her readiness to receive
you, and her full intention to devote herself to you to the very utmost of her ability. I am
sorry Jeffreys will not be there to help you in getting cabs, etc.; but he has found a chance
of placing himself permanently with a former master, and, of course, is glad of the opportunity
to do so.

I have not yet seen any of the Coxes. Cecilia and Mr. Combe only arrived last night from Hull,
having come by Antwerp. They have both got the influenza, and are very much knocked up, and
I have seen neither of them yet....

The railroad running through the Castle Gardens has cruelly spoiled them, of course, though
from the depth of the ravine, at the bottom of which it lies, it is not seen from Prince's
Street; but its silver wake floats up above the highest trees of the banks, and the Gardens
themselves are ruined by it. I have a sadly affectionate feeling for every inch of that ground....
I do not admire Scott's monument very much. It is an exact copy in stone of the Episcopal Throne
in Exeter Cathedral, a beautiful piece of wood carving. The difference between the white color
of the statue and the gray shrine by which it is canopied is not agreeable to me. I should
have liked it better if the figure had been of the same stone as the monument, and so of the
same color.

In Edinburgh it is never so much the detail of its various parts that arrests my attention
and enchants me especially, as the picturesque and grand effect of its several parts in juxtaposition
with each other--the beautiful result of all its features together, the striking and romantic
whole. The Carlton Hill seems to me more covered with buildings than I thought it was; but
I believe you have seen it since I have, so that I do not know how to answer your question
about it.

In determining to act in Edinburgh I followed the advice of the Mairs, who were, of course,
more likely to be able to judge of the probable relative success of reading or acting here,
and who counselled the latter.... Good-bye, dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [My cousin Elizabeth, youngest daughter of Mrs. Harry Siddons,
    married Major Mair, son of that fine old officer, Colonel Mair,
    Governor of Fort George. During several protracted seasons of
    foreign service, one of the banishments to which his military duty
    condemned Arthur Mair was a remote and lonely outpost on the
    furthest border of our then hardly peopled Canadian territory--a
    literal wilderness, without human inhabitants. Here, alone, with the
    small body of men under his command, he led a life of absolute
    mental and intellectual solitude, the effect of which upon his
    nervous system was such that, on his return to civilized existence,
    the society of his fellow-creatures, and all the intercourse of busy
    city life, affected him with such extreme shyness and embarrassment
    that in his own native town of Edinburgh, for some time after his
    return to it, he used to avoid all the more frequented
    thoroughfares, from mere nervous dread of encountering and being
    spoken to by persons of his acquaintance--an unfavorable result of
    "solitary confinement," even in a cell as wide as a wilderness.]

                        STAR HOTEL, GLASGOW, GEORGE SQUARE, October 4th.
  DEAR HARRIET,

My acquaintance with the H---- D----s dates only from my last visit to Glasgow, when they joined
our party at this hotel, and returned to Carolside with us. The lady is a daughter of a family
who are intimate friends of T---- M----, and was presented to me when a girl in London some
years ago. She has since married, and I met her again, with her husband, here a little while
ago.... They both show a very kind desire to be civil and amiable to me, and I like them both,
and her especially. They have spent the last five years of their lives wandering together about
Europe and Asia. They have no children, and have travelled without any of the servants that
generally attend wealthy English people abroad (courier, lady's-maid, valet); and have come
home so in love with their wild untrammelled life, that the possession of their estate at Ardoch,
and their prospect of an income of many thousands a year, seem equally to oppress them as undesirable
incumbrances, requiring them to sacrifice all their freedom, and submit to all sorts of civilized
conventional constraints from which they have lived in blessed exemption abroad, and to adopt
a style of existence utterly repugnant to their nomadic no-habits. G---- D----, on their return
to Ardoch, proposed to his wife to take up their abode in two of the rooms of their fine large
house, and let the rest to some pleasant and amusing people; for, he said, they never could
think of living in that house by themselves....

Your distress about my readings I answered with a slight feeling that it was a pity you should
begin to be anxious and troubled about the details of a project that may possibly never be
carried out after any fashion. I paid heed, nevertheless, to your observations, of which I
admit the force, and am so far from having determined to abide by any theoretical convictions
of my own upon the subject that I shall be guided entirely by Mr. Mitchell's opinion about
the best manner of giving my readings; for, as I do it for money, I shall do it in the way
most likely to be profitable. At the same time, I shall certainly use my best endeavor to have
the business so arranged as to desecrate as little as possible the great works of the master,
in the exposition and illustration of which I look for infinite pleasure and profit of the
highest order, whatever my meaner gain by it may be....

    [I am afraid my excellent and zealous manager, Mr. Mitchell, was
    often far from satisfied with the views I took of the duty imposed
    upon me by reading Shakespeare. My entire unwillingness to exhaust
    myself and make my work laborious instead of pleasant to me, by
    reading more than three, or at the utmost four, times a week, when
    very often we could have commanded very full rooms for the six; my
    pertinacious determination to read as many of the plays (and I read
    twenty-five) as could be so given to an audience in regular
    rotation, so as to avoid becoming hackneyed, in my feeling or
    delivery of them, appeared to him vexatious particularities highly
    inimical to my own best interests, which he thought would have been
    better served by reading "Hamlet," "Romeo and Juliet," and the
    "Merchant of Venice," three times as often as I did, and "Richard
    II.," "Measure for Measure," and one or two others, three times as
    seldom, or not at all. But though Mr. Mitchell could calculate the
    money value of my readings to me, their inestimable value he knew
    nothing of.]

Pray now, my dearest friend, consider that you too often challenge with affectionate anxiety
for me that future which I may never live to see; and yet do not imagine that I consider your
apprehensions and suggestions, were they a thousand times more numerous and more ridiculous,
if that were possible, as in any way unsatisfactory; but highly the contrary, as testifying
to that most comfortable fact that you, my beloved Hal, are the very same you ever have been
to me, an excellent, precious, devoted, wise, most absurd, and every way invaluable friend.
God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                  GREENOCK, October 9th.

I am very glad I did the duty of a hostess, dear Hal, though only in your dreams, and received
you hospitably in my own house, though I was not conscious of it. As for that fool Mulliner
and that brute Jeffreys, I will hang them up together on one rope when I return, for allowing
you to be so horribly disturbed....

If we are in Orchard Street together again, you shall put the Psyche [a fine cast of the Neapolitan
truncated statue given to Mr. Hamilton, Mrs. Fitzhugh's brother, by the King of Naples] in
whatever light you please; but, as I am certain not to return to London till the third week
in November, if then, I feel as if, when I get back to Orchard Street, I should have nothing
to do but pack up my things preparatory to removing to King Street, where I hope to get Mrs.
Humphreys to receive me until I leave England.

I shall certainly not be six weeks in Orchard Street when I return, and the Psyche will desert
the drawing-room when I do, and resume her post on the staircase, where she always seemed to
me to look down on dear Mrs. Fitzhugh's morning visitors, as they came up the stairs, with
a divinely mild severity of expression, as if she felt the bore about to be inflicted by their
presence on the inmates of her house, the mortals under her heavenly care.

You ought to find two letters from me at Bannisters, for I have directed two to you there.
How I wish I could be with you and dear Emily! Give my love to her, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [I was at this time occupying my friend Mrs. Fitzhugh's house in
    Orchard Street, Portman Square, which I rented for a twelvemonth
    from her. It was a convenient small house in an excellent situation,
    and one whole side of the drawing-room was covered with a clever
    painting, by Mr. Fitzhugh, of the bay and city of Naples--a pleasant
    object of contemplation in London winter days.]

                                                  GLASGOW, October 12th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I should very much wish that you would give me one of Loyal's children [a fine Irish retriever
of my friend's]; but do not again end any letter to me so abruptly, without even signing your
name, because it gives me a most uncomfortable notion that I have not got all you have written,
that you have, by mistake, put only a part of your letter in your envelope, and so sent it
off unfinished to me.

I left Carolside, to my great regret, yesterday. I came in Mrs. Mitchell's carriage to within
fourteen miles of Edinburgh, where I joined the railroad. She accompanied me thus far, and
then returned home. At Edinburgh I transferred myself immediately to the Glasgow train, and
so came on, without being able to ascertain whether Cecilia Combe and Lizzie Mair are at home
or not.

Mrs. Mitchell and Lady M----, and a party of their friends, are coming to Glasgow to-morrow.
They will stay at the same inn where I am, and go to the theatre every night that I play, so
that I do not feel yet as if I had taken leave of them; and Lady M---- intends going on with
me to Dundee, where I am going to act when I have finished my engagement here and at Greenock.

Is it not too provoking that the York manager has at length found out that he can afford to
give me my terms, and now writes to me to beg that I will go and act in York at the beginning
of next month? which, of course, I cannot, as I am to be three weeks in Edinburgh before I
return to England.

Neither you nor Dorothy mention your winter plans. Have you none made yet?...

I do not think, dear Hal, that you have ever heard me express a positive rejection of phrenology,
for the simple reason that, never having taken the pains thoroughly to study it, it would ill
become me to do so. At the same time, you know, I have at various times lived much in the society
of the principal professors of the science in this country, and they have occasionally taken
pains to explain a good deal of their system to me. I have also read a good many of their books,
and have had a great personal affection and esteem both for Mr. Combe and his excellent brother.
But, in spite of all this, and my entire agreement with almost all their physiological doctrines,
phrenology, as I have hitherto seen and heard it, has a positive element of inconclusiveness
to me, and I doubt if by studying it I should arrive at any other opinion, since all the opportunities
I have enjoyed of hearing it discussed and seeing it acted upon have left my mind in this frame
regarding it. I believe myself to have no prejudice on this subject, for I have longed all
my life to know something positive and certain about this wonderful machine which we carry
about with us, or which carries us about with it, and incline to agree with the views which
the phrenological physiologists entertain on the subjects of temperament and general organization.
But, in spite of all this, phrenology, as I hear it perpetually referred to and mixed up by
them with their habitual speech (it forms indeed so completely the staple of their phraseology
that one had need be familiar with the terms to follow their usual conversation), produces
no conviction on my mind beyond the recognized fact that a nobly and beautifully proportioned
head indicates certain qualities in the human individual, and vice versâ.

It appears to me merely a new nomenclature for long-known and admitted phenomena; and beyond
those, they seem to me to involve themselves in contradictions, divisions, and subdivisions
of the brain, so minute and various, and requiring so much allowance for so many conditions,
as considerably to neutralize each other, and render the result of their observations, which
to them seems positive and conclusive, to me uncertain and unsatisfactory.

There are many things which my intellectual laziness prevents my examining, which I feel sure,
if I did examine, would produce positive results on my mind; but phrenology does not seem to
me one of these. If it had been, I should have adopted it, or felt the same sort of belief
in it that I do in mesmerism, about which, understanding nothing, I still cannot resist an
impression that it is a real and powerful physical agency.... Now you must draw your own conclusions
as to the causes of this state of mind of mine with regard to phrenology. The phrenologists,
you know, say I am deficient in "causality"--and undoubtedly it is not my predominant mental
quality; but I incline to think that I could think, as well as the average number of professing
phrenologists, if I would take the trouble, for I have known some amongst them who certainly
were anything but logical in their general use of their brains.

The only time I ever was in the Highlands was when I went with Dall and my father to Loch Lomond
twenty years ago. I had never seen a drop of Loch Katrine till now. We went from Glasgow to
Stirling by railroad in an hour, on Saturday morning. From Stirling we took a light open carriage,
a kind of britzska, and pair of horses, and posted the same afternoon sixteen miles to Callander,
where we slept. Sunday morning we took the same carriage with fresh horses to Loch Katrine.
The distance is only ten miles of an enchanting drive; and if I had been able to spend the
night at the Trosachs, I could have done it perfectly well, for there is an immense big inn
there for the reception of tourists; and though the house was shut up for the season, the servants
were in it, and we could have procured bed and board there, and I have no doubt a roast fowl
and sherry, or oatmeal and whiskey, if we had preferred them. I had, however, to be back in
Stirling the same afternoon, and the weather was wild and gloomy, though not cold, nor positively
wet till we got into a little one-horse "machine" to drive through the Trosachs, when the mist
shrouded the mountains almost from base to summit, and even Ben Aven, close under him as we
were, was barely discernible. Ben An was the feature of the scene that struck me most; the
form of its crest is so singularly jagged and fine.

We just drove through the pass to the first ripple of the lake, and then turned right-about
to Stirling, which we reached before four o'clock in the afternoon, and yesterday morning I
was back again in Glasgow, the lakes and mountains remaining in my memory absolutely like a
dream. The country from Doune to Callander is beautiful, and in summer it must be an enchanting
expedition, though such scenery has its own peculiar winter beauty, grander and more impressive
perhaps than even its summer loveliness. I wish I was there again.

I cannot tell you anything more of my receipts at Glasgow, except that those of the second
night were much better than the first; but as those were small, this is not saying much. I
have not yet received the "returns."

I am glad the news you got from Ardgillan is satisfactory. Love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                      29, ABERCROMBIE PLACE, EDINBURGH, Wednesday, 13th.

I did not see the eclipse, my dear. I did not know there was to be one, and did not therefore
look for it; and if I had, I doubt my having been any the wiser, inasmuch as our mornings of
late have been very misty.

I am off to-day with Mrs. Mitchell to Ardoch, where I stay only to-morrow, and return Friday
to act here on Saturday. Having promised to go, I do not like to break my word, otherwise it
seems to me rather a fuss, and a long way to go for one day's rest. Originally our plan was
to spend two or three days there, that being all I could then give; but Mrs. Mitchell, with
whom I had promised to go, could not get away from visitors at her own house sooner.

I spent the evening with Cecilia and Mr. Combe on Monday. They are both tired from the effect
of their journey still, and look fagged and ill. They have both got the influenza too, which
does not mend matters; and I am struck with the alteration in Mr. Combe's appearance. He looks
old, as well as ill, and very sad--naturally enough on his return to this place, where his
dear brother died.

The becomingness of Cecilia's gray, or rather white, hair struck me more than any other change
in her. She has lost the appearance of hardness (coarseness), which, I think, mingled slightly
with her positive beauty formerly, and is to my mind handsomer now than I ever remember her.
She is not nearly so stout as she was; her complexion has lost its excess of color, has become
softer; and the contrast of her fine dark eyes and silvery curls gives her a striking resemblance
to Gainsborough's lovely portrait of her mother. She is looking thin and ill, but seems tolerably
cheerful.

At the end of my engagement at the theatre, during the whole of which I shall remain with the
Mairs, I shall spend a few days with her and Mr. Combe; after which I shall come as far south
as Howick, and stay a day or two with B---- G----, and then cross over to Manchester to the
Ellesmeres.

I shall hardly be in London before the third week in November. I have had a letter from my
sister, announcing their positive return in the spring; but, as she says they will only leave
Rome in May, it is improbable that I should see them at all, as I propose going to America
by the steamer of the first of June; but Heaven knows what may happen between this and then.
Nobody has the same right to "bother" me, as you call it, that you have, for I love nobody
so well; besides, as for Emily, she is a deuced deal quicker in her processes than you are,
and snaps up one's affairs by the nape of the neck, as a terrier does a rat, and unless one
is tolerably alert one's self, she is off with one in her zeal in no time, whither one would
not....

I wish you would tell Mrs. Fitzhugh, with my love, that a man who was acting Joseph Surface
with me the other night said to me, "Now, my dear Lady Teazle, if you could but be persuaded
to commit a trifling fore paw (faux pas)."

Give my love to dear Emily.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

  MY DEAREST HAL,

I expect to be with the Combes for some few days at least, and do not feel altogether as happy
as usual in the anticipation of their intercourse.

I think I have observed growing, as it were, upon them, with regard to certain subjects, a
sort of general attitude of antagonism, which strikes me painfully.

All fanaticisms are bad, and the fanaticism of scepticism as bad or perhaps worse than most
others, because it wounds more severely the prejudices of others than it can be wounded by
them, professing, as it does, to have none to wound.

I am going to stay with Cecilia all next week, and am rather afraid that I shall have to hear
things that I love and reverence irreverently treated. We shall probably steer clear of much
discourse on religious subjects, though of late Mr. Combe has appeared to me more inclined
than formerly to challenge discussion on this ground.

I am afraid I can at the utmost only expect to see my sister for a fortnight after they return,
though Henry Greville writes me that I cannot possibly give her the mortification and myself
the pain of going away just as she comes back, and that I ought, for both our sakes, to stay
at least a month in England after her return: but then he wishes to get up a play with us both.

I think Grantley Manor charming. It gave me a great desire to know Lady Georgiana Fullerton
personally; but I am told she has a horror of me, for what she calls my "injustice to the Catholics."
What that is I do not know; but whatever it is, I am very sorry for this result of it.

Good-bye, dearly beloved.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

           29, ABERCROMBIE PLACE, EDINBURGH, Monday, October 25th, 1847.

The last question in your letter, which nevertheless heads it, having been added on over the
date, "How is your health?" I can answer satisfactorily--much better.... I am much delighted
at you and Dorothy reserving your visit to Battle Abbey till I come to you, and only hope the
weather may give you no cause to regret having done so. I have promised Emily to go down to
Bannisters in December, and shall then pay you my visit at St. Leonard's.

I do much wish to be once more with you and Dorothy. I have just concluded a very pleasant
arrangement with Arthur Malkin and his wife for staying a few days in the neighborhood of the
lakes with them, between Keswick and Ambleside, after I leave Howick.

The weather is, I believe, generally favorable for that scenery as late as November. I have
never seen the English lakes, and am not likely soon to have so pleasant an opportunity of
doing so.

I have received an application from the York manager to act at Leeds, and having agreed to
do so, think I shall probably also act a few nights at York, Hull, and Sheffield, while I am
thereabouts; all which, together with my visit to the Ellesmeres, will take up so much of my
time that I doubt my being more than a month or three weeks in Orchard Street before my term
of possession there expires.... I shall be able to answer your questions about the Combes better
when I am with them, but besides my own observation I have the testimony of the ----s to the
fact of their having become much more aggressive in their feeling and conversation with regard
to "Church abuses," "theological bigotry," and even Christianity itself. I am sorry to hear
this; but if they hurt me, I shall heal myself by looking at the Vatican [a fine engraving
of St. Peter's, in Mr. Combe's house].

I had a letter from E---- the other day. I am delighted to say that they have quite determined
to return in the spring, and it is just possible that I may see them before I leave England.

E----'s account of the Roman reforms is most encouraging, and I must give you an extract from
his letter about them.

"A very important decree was published on the 2d of this month, relative to the organization
of a municipal council and magistracy for the city of Rome. Besides the ordinary duties of
a municipality, such as public works, octroi, etc., it is to have the direction of education.
This is a circumstance the consequence of which it is impossible to overrate or to foresee.
Hitherto, education has been monopolized by the clergy, and moreover by the Jesuits (whose
schools have always been the best by a very great deal, to give the devil his due). The new
law does not abolish their establishments, or interfere with them in any way, but the liberal
feeling being so strong in the country, the rising generation will be almost entirely educated
in the schools founded by the municipality; it is the greatest blow the hierarchy has yet received.
The council consists of a hundred members, chosen from different classes of society. It is
first named by the Pope, and then renews itself by elections; there are only four members to
represent the ecclesiastical bodies."

There, Hal, what do you think of that? I sit and think of that most lovely land, emerging gloriously
into a noble political existence once more, till I almost feel like a poet.

Love to Dorothy.... I only make Hayes sensible that she is a fool twice a week on an average,
not twice a day.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                           HOWICK GRANGE, November 14th.

Surely, my dearest Hal, the next time you say you almost despair of mankind, you should add,
"in spite of God," instead of "in spite of the Pope."

I arrived here about three hours ago, and have received a most severe and painful blow in a
letter from Henry Greville which I found awaiting me, containing the news of Mendelssohn's
death. I cannot tell you how shocked I am at this sudden departure of so great and good a creature
from amongst his impoverished fellow-beings. And when I think of that bright genius (he was
the only man of genius I have known who seemed to me to fulfil the rightful moral conditions
and obligations of one), by whose loss the whole civilized world is put into mourning; of his
poor wife, so ardently attached to him, so tenderly and devotedly loved by him; of his children--his
boy, who, I am told, inherits his sweet and amiable disposition; of my own dear sister, and
poor E----, so deeply attached to him,--I cannot bear to think, I feel half stupid with pain.
And yet your letter is full of other sorrow. O God! how much there is in this sorrowful life!
and what suffering we are capable of! and yet--and yet--these can be but the accidents, while
the sun still shines, and the beauty and consolation and virtue of nature and human life still
hourly abound.

You ask me if I have written anything in Edinburgh but letters. I have hardly had leisure to
write even letters. I do not know when I have worked so hard as during my last engagement there.
I have hardly had an occupation or thought that was not perforce connected with my theatrical
avocations. I am heartily glad it is over.

Mr. Combe has given me the "Vestiges of Creation" to read, and I have been reading it.... The
book is striking and interesting, but it appears to me far from strictly logical in its great
principal deduction, as far as we "human mortals" are concerned. Indeed, Mr. Combe, who thinks
it most admirable, was obliged to confess that the main question of progress, involving dissimilar
products from similar causes, was non-proven. And I think there are discrepancies, moreover,
in minor points: but that may only be because of my profound ignorance.

The book is extremely disagreeable to me, though my ignorance and desire for knowledge combined
give it, when treating of facts, a thousand times more interest than the best of novels for
me; but its conclusions are utterly revolting to me,--nevertheless, they may be true.

I cannot write any more. B---- has just given me the Athenæum, with a long notice of Mendelssohn;
and I am thinking more of him just now than anything else in the world....

God bless you, my dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                           LEEDS, Friday, November 19th.

Mendelssohn's death did indeed give me a bitter and terrible shock. He was one of the bright
sources of truth, at which I had hoped I might drink at some time or other. I always looked
forward to some probable season of intercourse with him, the likelihood of which was increased
by E---- and Adelaide's love for and intimacy with him. Intercourse with him seemed to me a
privilege almost certainly to be mine, in the course of the next few years. This is only my
own small selfish share of the great general grief. I feel particularly for E----. He seems
to find so very few people that satisfy him, whom he is fond of, or who are at all congenial
to him, that the loss of a dear friend, and such a man, will indeed fall heavily upon him.

Those whose sympathies are more general, and whose taste can accept and find pleasure in the
intercourse of the majority of their fellow-creatures, are fortunate in this respect, that
no one loss can make the world empty for them; and thus the qualities of kindliness and benevolence
are repaid, like all other virtues, even in this world (which is nevertheless not heaven),
into the bosom of those who practise them.

For a person who has permitted intellectual refinement to become almost a narrow fastidiousness,
and whose sympathies are of that exclusive kind that none but special and rarely gifted persons
can excite them, the loss of such a friend as Mendelssohn must be incalculable; and I am grieved
to the heart for E----.

I do not know what is to be done with Covent Garden. I suppose it will remain an opera-house;
for to fit it for that it has been made well-nigh unavailable for any other purpose, as I think
we shall find on the 7th December, when a representation of "Scenes" from various of Shakespeare's
plays is to take place there, for the purpose of raising funds for the purchase of the house
Shakespeare was born in.

You know what my love and veneration for Shakespeare are; you know, too, how comparatively
indifferent to me are those parts of the natures even of those I most love and honor which
belong only to their mortality. The dead bodies of my friends appeal, perhaps, even less than
they should do to my feelings, since they have been temporarily inhabited and informed by their
souls; but acquainted as you are with these notions of mine, you will understand that I do
not entirely sympathize with all that is being said and done about the four walls between which
the king of poets came into his world. The thing is more distasteful to me, because originally
got up by an American charlatan of the first water, with a view to thrust himself into notoriety
by shrieking about the world stupendous commonplaces about the house where Shakespeare was
born. It has been taken up by a number of people, theatrical and other, who, with the exception
of Macready, have many of them the same petty personal objects in view. Those whose profession
compels them, by the absolute necessity of its conditions, to garble and hack and desecrate
works which else could not be fit for acting purposes (a fact which in itself sets forth what
theatrical representation really is and always must be--do read, à propos to this, Serlo's
answer to Wilhelm Meister about the impossibility of representing dramatically a great poetical
whole), and who now, on this very Shakespearian Memorial night, instead of acting some one
of his plays in its integrity, and taking zealously any the most insignificant part in it,
have arranged a series of truncated, isolated scenes, that the actors may each be the hero
or heroine of their own bit of Shakespeare.... This is all I know of the immediate destinies
of Covent Garden. They have written to me to act the dying scene of Queen Katharine, to which
I have agreed, not choosing to decline any part assigned me in this "Celebration," little as
I sympathize with it.

If I should hear anything further, as I very likely may, from Henry Greville, of the probable
fate of Covent Garden next season, I will let you know, that you may dispose accordingly of
your property in it.

I have finished the "Vestiges of Creation." I became more reconciled to the theory it presents
towards the close of the book, for obvious reasons. Of course, when, abandoning his positive
chain (as he conceives it) of proved progression, after leading the whole universe from inorganic
matter up to the "paragon of animals," the climax of development, man, he goes on to say that
it is impossible to limit the future progress, or predict the future destinies of this noble
human result, he forsakes his own ground of material demonstration, on which he has jumped,
as the French say, à peds joints, over many an impediment, and relieves himself (and me) by
the hypothesis, which, after all, in no way belongs peculiarly to his system, that other and
higher destinies, developments, may, and probably do, await humanity than anything it has yet
attained here: a theory which, though most agreeable to the love of life and desire of perfection
of most human creatures, in no sort hinges logically on to his absolute chain of material progression
and development. From the moment, however, that he admitted this view, instead of the one which
I think legitimately belongs to his theory, irreconcilable as it seemed to me with what preceded
it, the book became less distasteful to me, although I do not think the soundness of his theory
(even admitting all his facts, which I am quite too ignorant to dispute) established by his
work. Supposing his premises to be all correct, I think he does not make out his own case satisfactorily;
and many of the conclusions in particular instances appear to me to be tacked or basted (to
speak womanly) together loosely and clumsily, and yet with an effect of more mutual relation,
coherence, and cohesion than really belongs to them.

Mr. Combe is delighted with the book--because it quotes him and his brother, and professes
a belief in phrenology; but Mr. Combe himself allowed that the main proposition of the work
is not logically deduced from its arguments, and moreover admitted that though well versed
in all the branches of natural science, the author was perfectly master of none. He attributes
the authorship to his friend Robert Chambers, or perhaps to the joint labor of him and his
brother William. If his surmise in this respect is true there would be obvious reasons why
they should not acknowledge so heterodox a book, especially in Edinburgh.

In asking me for my theory of human existence, dear Hal, you must have forgotten me in your
craving desire for some--any--solution of the great mystery with which you are so deeply and
perpetually perplexed.

How should I, who know nothing, who am exceptionally ignorant, who seldom read, and seldomer
think (in any proper sense of the word), have even the shadow of a theory upon this overpowering
theme?

To tell you the vague suggestions of my imagination at various times would doubtless be but
to re-echo some of your own least satisfactory surmises.

I thank God I have not the mental strength and infirmity to seek to grapple with this impossible
subject. The faint outlines of ideas that have at any time visited my brain about this tremendous
mystery of human life have all been sad and dreary, and most bitterly and oppressively unsatisfactory;
and therefore I rejoice that no mental fascination rivets my thoughts to the brink of this
dark and unfathomable abyss, but that it is on the contrary the tendency of my nature to rest
in hope, or rather in faith in God's mercy and power, and moreover to think that the perception
we have (or as you would say, imagine we have) of DUTY, of right to be done and wrong to be
avoided, gives significance enough to our existence to make it worth both love and honor, though
it should consist of but one conscious day in which that noble perception might be sincerely
followed, and though absolute annihilation were its termination. The whole value and meaning
of life, to me, lies in the single sense of conscience--duty; and that is here, present, now,
enough for the best of us--God knows how much too much for me.

Good-bye, my dear. I have a most horrible cough and sore throat, and I have been acting with
it, feeling every moment that I was doing my poor parts of speech a serious injury by the strain
I was compelled to put upon them. You may judge of the state of my voice when I tell you that
I received from some anonymous kind friend this morning a bottle of cough-mixture, and all
manner of lozenges, jujubes, etc. Give my love to Dorothy.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                         ORCHARD STREET.
  DEAREST H----,

... I am going with Henry Greville to see Rachel on Wednesday in "Marie Stuart." I wish I could
afford to see her every night, but it is a dear recreation. Henry Greville is not "teaching
me to act," though I dare say he thinks I may derive profit as well as pleasure from seeing
Rachel....

All my friends are extremely impatient of my small gains; I am not, though I certainly should
be glad if they were larger....

I have moved my Psyche, my beautiful and serene goddess. As the ancient Romans had especial
tutelary gods for their private houses, the patron saints of the heathen calendar, she is my
adopted divinity. You know I have had her with me in some of my blackest and bitterest seasons,
and have often marvelled at the mere combination of lines which have produced so exquisite
an image of noble graceful thoughtfulness. She is not without a certain sweet sternness, too;
there is immense power, as well as repose, in that lovely countenance,--how--why--can mere
curved and straight lines convey so profoundly moral an impression? She is an admirable companion,
and reminds me of Wordsworth's "Ode to Duty," which I every now and then feel inclined to apostrophize
her with.

I have sent out the big centre china jar to the table on the stair-case, and have put my goddess
in the drawing-room in its place....

I have received a kind invitation from Lady Dacre to the Hoo, and I shall spend next week there,
which will be both good and agreeable for me. I expect to find Lady G---- there; she is a person
for whom I have a great liking and esteem, and whom I shall be glad to meet. Perhaps, too,
dear William Harness; but I do not know of anybody else.

I forget whether I told you that the Sedgwicks had sent me a friend of theirs, an American
country clergyman, to lionize about London, which I have been doing for the last three days.
I took him to the British Museum, and showed him the Elgin Marbles, and the library, and the
curious manuscripts and books which strangers generally care to see; but the profit and pleasure,
I should think, of travelling is but little unless the mind is in some slight measure prepared
for more knowledge by the possession of some small original stock; and a great many Americans
come abroad but poorly furnished not only with learning but with the means of learning.

Charles Greville got me an admission for my Yankee friend to the House of Lords. We were admitted
while the business was going on, and saw the curious old form of passing the Acts of Parliament
by Commission, than the ceremonies of which it is difficult to imagine anything more quaint,
not to say ludicrous, and apparently meaningless.

We heard Lord Brougham and the Duke of Wellington speak, and had an excellent view of both of them.

The House appeared to me too minutely ornamented; it is rich, elaborate, but all in small detail,
too subdivided and intricate and overwrought to be as imposing and good in effect as if it
were more simple.

I took my American friend to the Zoological Gardens, and to the Botanical Gardens, in the Regent's
Park, which are very charming, and for which I have a private ticket of admission.

This morning I have been with him to Stafford House, to show him the pictures, which are fine,
and the house itself, which I think the handsomest in London. To-morrow I take him to the opera,
and I have given him a breakfast, a lunch, and a dinner, and feel as if I had discharged the
duty put upon me, especially as it involved what I have no taste for, i.e. sight-seeing.

The Elgin Marbles I was glad enough to see again--one has never seen them too often,--and was
sitting down to reflect upon them at my leisure, when my American friend, to whom, doubtless,
they seemed but a parcel of discolored, dirty, decapitated bodies, proposed that we should
pass on, which we accordingly did.

I am struck with the spirit of conformity by which this gentleman seems troubled, and which
Adelaide tells me the young American people they saw in Rome constantly expressed,--the dread
of appearing that which they are, foreigners; the annoyance at hearing that their accent and
dress denote them to be Americans. They certainly are not comfortable people in this respect,
and I always wish, for their own sakes as well as mine, that they had more or less self-love.

I was impelled to say to my young clergyman, whose fear of trespassing against English usages
seemed to leave him hardly any other idea, "Sir, are you not a foreigner, an American? May
I ask why it is to be considered incumbent upon you, either by yourself or others, to dress
and speak like an Englishman?" ...

Good-bye, dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      18, ORCHARD STREET, November 18th.

I do not know that I ever slept so near the sea as to hear it discoursing as loudly as you
describe, though I have been where its long swelling edge was heard rolling up and tearing
itself to ribbons on the shingly beach like distant thunder. As for night-sounds of any sort,
you know my sound sleep is the only one I am familiar with.

In the hotel at Niagara, the voice of the cataract not only roared night and day through every
chamber of the house, but the whole building vibrated incessantly with the shock of the mighty
fall. I have still health and nerve and spirits to cope with the grand exhibitions of the powers
of Nature: the majesty and beauty of the external world always acts as a tonic on me, and under
its influence I feel as if a strong arm was put round me, and was lifting me over stony places;
and I nothing doubt that the great anthem of the ocean would excite rather than overpower me,
however nearly it sounded in my ears.

Your description of the terrace, or parade walk, covered with my fellow-creatures, appals my
imagination much more. My sympathies have never been half human enough, and in the proximity
of one of nature's most impressive objects I shrink still more from contact with the outward
forms of unknown humanity. However, this is merely an answer to your description; I shall find,
by creeping down the shingles, some place below, or, by climbing the cliff, some place above,
these dear men and women, where I can be a little alone with the sea.

I observed nothing peculiar about the direction of any letter that I have recently received
from you; but then, to be sure, I am not given to the general process, which, general as it
is, always astonishes me, of examining the direction, the date, the postmark, the signature,
of the letter I receive (as many of these, too, as possible, before opening the epistle); I
hasten to read your words as soon as I have them, and seldom speculate as to when or where
they were written, so that I really do not know whether I have received your Hull letter or
not. I do not go thither until Monday next, and return to town the following Sunday....

Oh, my dear, what a world is this! or rather, what an unlucky experience mine has been--in
some respects--yes, in some respects! for while I write this, images of the good, and true,
and excellent people I have known and loved rise like a cloud of witnesses to shut out the
ugly vision of the moral deformity of some of those with whom my fate has been interwoven....

I have agreed with Mrs. Humphreys to take the apartments that T---- M---- had in King Street,
from the beginning of January till the beginning of May. She says she cannot let me have them
longer than that, but I shall endeavor for at least a month's extension, for it will be so
very wretched to turn out and have to hunt for new lodgings, for a term of six weeks.

My success at Leeds was very good, considering the small size of the theatre.... I am not exempt
from a feeling about "illustrious localities," but the world seems to me to be so absolutely
Shakespeare's domain and dwelling-place, that I do not vividly associate him with the idea
of those four walls, between which he first saw the light of an English day. If the house he
dwelt in in the maturity of his age, and to which he retired to spend the evening of his life,
still existed, I should feel considerable emotion in being where his hours and days were spent
when his mind had reached its zenith.

A baby is the least intelligent form of a rational human being, and as it mercifully pleased
God to remove His wonderfully endowed child before the approach of age had diminished his transcendent
gifts, I do not care to contemplate him in that condition in which I cannot recognize him--that
is, with an undeveloped and dormant intelligence.

We know nothing of his childhood, nothing of the gradual growth and unfolding of his genius;
his acknowledged works date from the season of its ripe perfection.

You know I do not regret the dimness that covers the common details of his life: his humanity
was allied to that of its kind by infirmities and sins, but I am glad that these links between
him and me have disappeared, and that those alone remain by which he will be bound, as long
as this world lasts, to the love and reverence of his fellow-beings. Shakespeare's childhood,
boyhood, the season of his moral and intellectual growth, would be of the deepest interest
could one know it: but Shakespeare's mere birthplace and babyhood is not much to me; though
I quite agree that it should be respectfully preserved, and allowed to be visited by all who
find satisfaction in such pilgrimage.

He could not have been different from other babies you know; nor, indeed, need be,--for a baby--any
baby--is a more wonderful thing even than Shakespeare.

I have told you how curiously affected I was while standing by his grave, in the church at
Stratford-upon-Avon: how I was suddenly overcome with sleep (my invariable refuge under great
emotion or excitement), and how I prayed to be allowed to sleep for a little while on the altar-steps
of the chancel, beside his bones: the power of association was certainly strong in me then;
but his bones are there, and above them streamed a warm and brilliant sunbeam, fit emblem of
his vivifying spirit;--but I have no great enthusiasm for his house....

Does not the power of conceiving in any degree the idea of God establish some relation between
Him and the creature capable of any approach by thought to Him? Do we not, in some sense, possess
mentally that which we most earnestly think of? is it not the possession over which earthly
circumstances have the least power? The more incessantly and earnestly we think of a thing
the more we become possessed by and of it, and in some degree assimilated to it; and can those
thoughts which reach towards God alone fail to lay hold, in any sort or degree, of their object?...

Surely, whether we are, or are not, the result of an immense chain of material progression,
we have attained to that idea which preserves alive to all eternity the souls upon which it
has once dawned. We have caught hold of the feet of the omnipotent Creator; and to the spirit
that once has received the conception, however feeble or remote, of His greatness and goodness,
there can be no cessation of the bond thus formed between itself and its great Cause. I cannot
write about this; I could not utter in words what I think and feel about it: but it seems to
me that if organization, mere development, has reached a pitch at which it becomes capable
of divine thoughts, it thenceforth can never be anything less than a creature capable of such
conceptions; and if so, then how much more?

Farewell. Love to Dorothy.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                F. A. K.

                                           ORCHARD STREET, Monday, 18th.

I arrived yesterday in town, my dearest Hal, and found your letter waiting for me. The aspect
of these, my hired Penates, is comfortable and homelike to me, after living at inns for a fortnight;
and the spasmodic and funereal greetings of the nervous Mulliner, and the lugubrious Jeffreys,
gladden my spirits with a sense of returning to something that expects me.

About Lady Emily ---- and her ethereal confinement: did I not tell you that Mrs. C---- wrote
me word from America that Fanny Longfellow had been brought to bed most prosperously under
the beneficent influence of ether? at which my dear S---- C---- expresses some anxiety touching
the authority of the Book of Genesis, which she thinks may be impaired if women continue, by
means of ether, to escape from the special curse pronounced against them for their share in
the original sin.

For my part I am not afraid that the worst part of the curse will not abide upon us, in spite
of ether; the woman's desire will still be to her husband, who, consequently, will still rule
over her. For these (curses or not, as people may consider them), I fear no palliating ether
will be found; and till men are more righteous than they are, all creatures subject to them
will be liable to suffer misery of one sort or another....

I wonder if I have ever spoken to you of Lady Morley--a kind-hearted, clever woman (who, by
the bye, always calls men "the softer sex"), a great friend of Sydney Smith's, whom I have
known a good deal in society, and who came to see me just before I left town. In speaking of
poor Lady Dacre, and the difficulty she found in accepting her late bereavement, Lady Morley
said, "I think people should be very grateful whose misfortunes fall upon them in old age rather
than in youth: they're all the nearer having done with them." There was some whimsical paradox
in this, but some truth too. An habitual saying of hers (not serious, of course, but which
she applies to everything she hears) is: "There's nothing new, nothing true, and nothing signifies."
The last time I dined at Lady Grey's a discussion arose between Lady Morley, myself, and some
of the other guests, as to how much or how little truth it was right to speak in our usual
intercourse with people. I maintained that one was bound to speak the whole truth; so did my
friend, Lady G----; Lady F---- said, "Toute verité n'est pas bonne à dire;" and Lady Morley
told the following story: "I sat by Rogers at dinner the other day (the poet of memory was
losing his, and getting to repeat the same story twice over without being aware that he did
so), and he told me a very good story, which, however, before long, he began to repeat all
over again; something, however, suggesting to him the idea that he was doing so, he stopped
suddenly, and said, 'I've told you this before, haven't I?' And he had, not a quarter of an
hour before. Now, ladies, what would you have said? and what do you think I said? 'Oh yes,'
said I, 'to be sure: you were beginning to tell it to me when the fish came round, and I'm
dying to hear the end of it.'" This was on all hands allowed to have been a most ingenious
reply; and I said I thought she deserved to be highly complimented for such graceful dexterity
in falsehood: to which she answered, "Oh, well, my dear, it's all very fine; but if ever you
get the truth, depend upon it you won't like it"--a retort which turned the laugh completely
against me, and sent her ladyship off with flying colors; and certainly there was no want of
tolerably severe sincerity in that speech of hers.

Lady Morley's great vivacity of manner and very peculiar voice added not a little to the drollery
of her sallies.

A very conceited, effeminate, and absurd man coming into a room where she was one evening,
and beginning to comb his hair, she exclaimed, "La! what's that! Look there! There's a mermaid!"

Frederick Byng told me that he was escorting her once in a crowded public assembly, when she
sat down on a chair from which another woman had just risen and walked away. "Do you know whose
place you have just taken?" asked he. Something significant in his voice and manner arrested
her attention, when, looking at him for an instant with wide-open eyes, she suddenly jumped
up, exclaiming, "Bless my heart, don't tell me so! Predecessor!" Lord Morley, before marrying
her, had been divorced from his first wife, who had just vacated the seat taken by his second,
at the assembly to which they had both gone.

On the occasion of my acting at Plymouth, Lady Morley pressed me very kindly to go and stay
some days with her at Soltram, her place near there: this I was unable to do, but drove over
to see her, when, putting on a white apron, to "sustain," as she said, "the character," she
took me, housekeeper fashion, through the rooms; stopping before her own charming watercolor
drawings, with such comments as, "Landscape,--capital performance, by Frances Countess of Morley;"
"Street in a foreign town, by Frances Countess of Morley,--a piece highly esteemed by connyshures;"
"Outside of a church, by Frances Countess of Morley,--supposed by good judges to be her shiff
duver," etc....

I have just had a visit from that pretty Miss Mordaunt who acted with me at the St. James's
Theatre, and who tells me that her sister, Mrs. Nisbett, was cheated at the Liverpool theatre
precisely as I was; but she has a brother who is a lawyer, who does not mean to let the matter
rest without some attempt to recover his sister's earnings....

I went this morning to inquire at the St. George's Workhouse for the unfortunate girl I took
out of the hands of the police in the park the other day (her offence was being found asleep
at early morning, and suspected of having passed the night there), and found, to my great distress
and disappointment, that she was in the very act of starting for Bristol.

I had, as I told you, interested dear Mr. Harness, and Mr. Brackenbury, the chaplain of the
Magdalen, about her, and when I went out of town she seemed fully determined to go into that
asylum. The chaplain of the workhouse in Mount Street, however, has dissuaded her from doing
so, told her she would come out worse than she went in; in short, they have despatched her
to Bristol, to the care and guardianship of a poor young sister, only a year older than herself,
who earns a scanty support by sewing; and all that remained for me to do was to pay her expenses
down, and send her sister something to help her through the first difficulties of her return.
I am greatly troubled about this. They say the poor unfortunate child is in the family-way,
and therefore could not be received at the Magdalen Asylum; but it seems to me that there has
been some prejudice, or clerical punctilio, or folly, or stupidity at work, that has induced
the workhouse officials thus to alter the poor girl's determination, and send her back whence
she came, no doubt to go through a similar experience as soon as possible again. God help her,
and us all! What a world it is!...

The clergyman of the workhouse called upon me to explain why he had so advised the girl, but
I did not think his reasons very satisfactory....

God bless you.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                         ORCHARD STREET.

The houses at Plymouth and Exeter were wretched.... These gains, my dearest Hal, will not allow
of my laying up much, but they will prevent my being in debt, that horror of yours and mine.
I paid my expenses, besides bringing home something, and a considerable increase of health
and strength--which is something more....

I remain in town till the end of next week, then go to Norwich, Ipswich, and Cambridge, my
midland circuit, as I call it; after which I shall return to London. Towards the middle of
August I go to York, Leeds, Sheffield, and Newcastle, thence to visit Mrs. Mitchell at Carolside;
after which I shall take my Glasgow and Edinburgh engagements, and then come back to London.
There is a rumor of Macready being about to take Drury Lane for the winter, but I have no idea
whether it is true or not.

I am sure I don't know what is to become of my poor dog Hero [a fine Irish retriever given
me by my friend]. I am almost afraid that Mrs. Humphreys will not take him into her nice lodging.
If I can't keep him with me till I go away to America, I should beg you in the interim to receive
him, for my sake, at Ardgillan.

You cannot think with what a sense of relief at laying hold of something that could not lie
I threw my arms round his neck the other day, after ---- had left me. This is melancholy, is
it not? but I believe many poor human creatures whose hearts have been lacerated by their (un)kind
have loved brutes for their freedom from the complicated and reflected falsehood of which the
nobler nature is, alas! capable and guilty.

Tell me if it will be inconvenient to you to take charge of Hero when I go away. In a place
where he had a wider range than this narrow little dwelling of mine, and where his defects
were not incessantly ministered to by the adulation of an idiotical old maid besotted with
the necessity of adoring and devoting herself to something, he would be very endurable....

[I injured one of my hands in getting out of a pony-carriage at Hawick.] Touching my broken
finger, my dear, I am sure I did take off the splints too soon, and the recovery has been protracted
in consequence; but as I knew it would recover anyhow, and that the splints were inconvenient
in acting, and, moreover, expensive, as they compelled me to cut off the little finger of all
my white gloves, I preferred dispensing with them. The pain, inflammation, and stiffness are
almost gone, and nothing remains but the thickening of the lower part of the finger, which
makes it look crooked, and I think may continue after the injury is healed. I did not, I believe,
break the bone at all, but tore away the ligament on one side, that keeps the upper joint in
its socket. The cold water pumping is a capital thing, and I give it a douche every time I
take my bath. It might, perhaps, be a little better for bandaging, but will get well without
it.... A healthy body, with common attention to common-sense, will recover, undoctored, from
a great many evils. In almost all cases of slight fractures, cuts, bruises, etc., if the patient
is temperate and healthy, and has no constitutional tendency to fever or inflammation, the
evil can be remedied by cold water bandages and rest.

Give my dear love to my dear Dorothy and your dear Dorothy. I shall be happy with you both,
for she is quite too good to be jealous of.

God bless you, dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                            ORCHARD STREET, Sunday, 4th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

First of all let me tell you, what I am sure you will be glad to learn, that E---- S---- is
in England. You will imagine how glad I was to see him. I am very fond of him, have great reliance
on his mind as well as his heart; and then he seems like something kind and dependable belonging
to me--the only thing of the kind that I possess, for my sister is a woman, and you know I
am heartily of opinion that we are the weaker sex, and that an efficient male protector is
a tower of strength.

In seeing E----, too, I saw, as it were, alive again the happy past. He seemed part of my sister
and her children, and the blessed time I spent with them in Rome, and it was a comfort to me
to look at him....

Charles Greville had been out of town, and found the letter announcing E----'s advent, and
came up, very good-naturedly, dinnerless, to bring me word of the good news. The next day,
however, he was as cross as possible (a way both he and his brother Henry have, in common with
other spoiled children) because I expressed some dismay when he said E----'s obtaining a seat
in Parliament was quite an uncertainty (I think Mr. S---- contemplated standing for Kidderminster).
Now, from all he had said, and the letter he had written about it, I should have supposed E----'s
return to have been inevitable; but this is the sort of thing people perpetually do who endeavor
to persuade others that what they themselves wish is likely to happen. E---- seems quite aware
himself that the thing is a great chance, but says that even if he does not get a seat in Parliament,
he shall not regret having come, as he wanted change of air, is much the better for the journey,
and has had the satisfaction of seeing his sister in Paris. Nevertheless, if this effort to
settle himself to his mind in England proves abortive, I do not think the Grevilles will get
him back in a hurry again....

I am surprised by the term "worthless fellow" which A---- applies to ----. I think him selfish
and calculating, but I am getting so accustomed to find everybody so that it seems to me superfluous
fastidiousness to be deterred from dealings with any one on that account....

I do not write vaguely to my sister about my arrangements; but you know I have no certain plans,
and it is difficult to write with precision about what is not precise.

I am not going to Norwich just yet; the theatre is at present engaged by the Keeleys, and the
manager's arrangements with them and Mademoiselle Celeste are such that he cannot receive me
until August. I may possibly act a night or two at Newcastle in Staffordshire, and at Rochdale,
but this would not take me away for more than a week.

In answer to your question of what "coarsenesses" L---- finds in my book ["A Year of Consolation"],
I will give you an extract from her letter. "There are a few expressions I should like to have
stricken out of it; par exemple, I hate the word stink, though I confess there is no other
to answer its full import; and there are one or two passages the careless manner of writing
which astonished me in you. You must have caught it from what you say is my way of talking."
Now, Hal, I can only tell you that more than once I thought myself actually to blame for not
giving with more detail the disgusting elements which in Rome mingle everywhere with what is
sublime and exquisite; for it appeared to me that to describe and dilate upon one half of the
truth only was to be an unfaithful painter, and destroy the merit, with the accuracy, of the
picture. I remember, particularly, standing one morning absorbed in this very train of reflection,
in the Piazza del Popolo, when on attempting to approach the fine fountains below the Pincio
I found it impossible to get near them for the abominations by which they were surrounded,
and thought how unfaithful to the truth it would be to speak of the grace and beauty of this
place, and not of this detestable desecration of it. The place and the people can only be perfectly
described through the whole, as you know. Farewell.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     RAILWAY STATION, HULL, Friday, 4th.

I have been spending the afternoon crying over the tender mercies of English Christians to
their pauper population, till my eyes smart, and itch, and ache, and I shall have neither sight
nor voice to read "Coriolanus," which I must do this evening. To this Hull Railway Hotel is
attached a magnificent Railway Station (or rather vice versa), shaped like a horseshoe, with
a spacious broad pavement, roofed with a skylight all round, making a noble ambulatory, of
which I have availed myself every day since I have been here for my walking exercise....

I was just starting for my walk to-day, when in came old Mr. Frost, my Hull employer, President
of the Literary and Scientific Institution, before which I am giving my present readings, the
principal lawyer, and, I believe, Mayor of Hull,--a most charming, accomplished, courteous
old gentleman of seventy years and upwards, who, finding that I was about to walk, proposed
to accompany me, and we descended to the Station.

As we paced up and down, I remarked, lying in a corner, what I took at first for a bundle of
rags. On looking again, however, I perceived there was a live creature in the rags--a boy,
whose attitude of suffering and weariness, as he crouched upon the pavement, was the most wretched
thing you can imagine. I knelt down by him, and asked him what ailed him: he hardly lifted
his face from his hands, and said, "Headache;" and then, coughing horribly, buried his miserable
face again. Mr. Frost, seeing I still knelt by him, began to ask him questions; and then followed
one of those piteous stories which make one smart all over while one listens to them; parental
desertion, mother marrying a second time, cruelty from the step-father, beating, starving,
and final abandonment. He did not know what had become of them; they had gone away to avoid
paying their rent, and left this boy to shift for himself. "How long ago is that?" said Mr.
Frost. "Before snow," said the lad,--the snow has been gone a fortnight and more from this
neighborhood, and for all that time the child, by his own account, has wandered up and down,
living by begging, and sleeping in barns and stables and passages. The interrogatory was a
prolonged one: my friend Mr. Frost is slow by age, and cautious by profession, and a man by
nature, and so not irresistibly prompted to seize up such an unfortunate at once in his arms
and adopt it for his own. In the course of his answers the boy, among other things, said, "I
wouldn't mind only for little brother." "How old is he?" "Going on two year." "Where is he?"
"Mother got him." "Oh, well, then, you needn't fret about him; she'll take care of him." "No,
she won't; he won't be having nothing to eat, I know he won't." And the boy covered his face
again in a sullen despair that was pitiful to see. Now, you know, Hal, this boy was not begging;
he did not come to us with a pathetic appeal about his starving little brother: he was lying
starving himself, and stupefied, with his head covered over, buried in his rags when I spoke
to him; and this touching reminiscence of his poor little step-brother came out in the course
of Mr. Frost's interrogatory accidentally, and made my very heart ache. The boy had been in
the workhouse for two years, with his mother, before she married this second husband; and,
saying that he had been sent to school, and kindly treated, and well fed in the workhouse,
I asked him if he would go back thither, and he said yes. So, rather to Mr. Frost's amazement
I think, I got a cab, and put the child in, and with my kind old gentleman--who, in spite of
evident repugnance to such close quarters with the poor tatterdemalion, would by no means leave
me alone in the adventure--we carried the small forsaken soul to the workhouse, where we got
him, with much difficulty, temporarily received. The wife of the master of the poor-house knew
the boy again, and corroborated much of what he had told us, adding that he was a good boy
enough while he was there with his mother; but--would you believe it, Hal?--she also told us
that this poor little creature had come to their gate the night before, begging admittance;
but that, because he had not a certain written order from a certain officer, the rules of the
establishment prevented their receiving him, and he had been turned away of course. I was in
a succession of convulsions of rage and crying all this time, and so adjured and besought poor
old Mr. Frost to take instant measures for helping the little outcast, that when we left him
by the workhouse fire, the woman having gone to get him some food, and I returned blaspheming
and blubbering to my inn, he--Mr. Frost--went off in search of a principal police-officer of
Hull, from whom he hoped to obtain some further information about the child, which he presently
brought back to me. "Oh yes, the magistrate knew the child; he had sent him to prison already
several times, for being found lying at night on the wharves and about the streets." So this
poor little wretch was sent to prison because literally he had not where to lay his head!...
I wouldn't be a man for anything! They are so cruel, without even knowing that they are so:
the habit of seeing sin and suffering is such a heart-hardener.

Well, the boy is safe in the workhouse now, and is, according to his own wish and inclination,
either to be sent to sea or put out apprentice to some trade. I have pledged one of my readings
for purposes of outfit or entrance-fee, and Mr. Frost has promised me not to lose sight of
the child, so I hope he is rescued from sin and suffering for the present, and perhaps for
the future.

Do you remember what infinite difficulty I told you I had had in rescuing that poor little
wretch out of the streets of Glasgow? But then she had the advantage of a mother, who drove
her into them day after day, to sing her starvation in the miserable mud and rain,--luckily
this poor Hull boy's mother had not this interest in him.

I have come home, dear Hal, after my reading, and resume my letter to you, though I am very
tired, and shall go to bed before I have finished it.

I do remember Robertson's sermon about Jacob wrestling with the angel, and I remember the passage
you refer to. I remember feeling that I did not agree with it. The solemnity of night is very
great; and the aspect of the star-sown heavens suggests the idea of God, by the overpowering
wonder of those innumerable worlds by which one then sees one's self surrounded,--which affect
one's imagination in a reverse way from the daylight beauty of the earth, for that makes God
seem as if He were here, in this world, which then is all we see (except its great eye, the
sun) of these multitudinous worlds He has created, and that are hanging in countless myriads
round us. Night suggests the vastness of creation, as day can never do; and darkness, silence,
the absence of human fellowship, and the suspension of human activity, interests, and occupations,
leave us a less disturbed opportunity of meditating on our Creator's inconceivable power. The
day and the day's beauty make me feel as if God were very near me; the night and the night's
beauty, as if I were very far off from Him.

But, dear Harriet, do not, I entreat you, challenge me to put into words those thoughts which,
in us all, must be unutterable. If I can speak of nothing that I feel deeply but with an indistinctness
and inefficiency that make me feel sick as with a bodily effort of straining at what I cannot
reach, how can I utter, or write, upon such a subject as this! Do not, I beg, ask me such questions,
at least in writing; speaking to you, there might be times--seldom, indeed, but some--when
I might stammer out part of what I felt on such a subject; but I cannot write about it--it
is impossible.

I have many things to tell you, for which I am too tired to-night, but I will tell you them
to-morrow. God bless you. It has just occurred to me that I have a morning reading to-morrow,
and some visits to pay first, and I must go to the workhouse and see that boy once more, and
satisfy myself that whatever he is put to hereafter is his own choice; and so I shall have
no time to write to you to-morrow, and therefore I will finish my letter to-night.... I had
an application from Dr. Hawtrey, the Provost of Eton, through Mary Ann Thackeray, the other
day, to give some readings to the Eton boys, which I have delightedly agreed to do--but of
course refused to be paid for what will be such a great pleasure to me; whereupon Dr. Hawtrey
writes that my "generosity to his boys takes his breath away." I think I ought to pay for what
will be so very charming as reading Shakespeare to those children....

I had a letter from Mrs. Jameson yesterday, from whom I have heard nothing since she left my
house....

And now, dear Hal, I have told you all my news,--oh no, I haven't either:--I went last night,
it being my holiday, to hear Mr. Warren, the author of "Ten Thousand a Year," and the Recorder
of Hull, address the members of the Mechanics' Institute on the duties, privileges, difficulties,
dignity, and consolations of labor. I was greatly delighted. I sat on the platform, opposite
that large concourse of working men and women--laborers well acquainted by daily experience
with the subject of the eloquent speaker's discourses,--and was deeply touched by the silent
attention and intelligent interest with which, for two hours, they listened to his admirable
address.

I have got it, and shall bring it down and read it to you. Good-bye. Do not fail to let me
know what I can do for Dorothy. Good-night.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     HULL, Thursday, December 2nd, 1847.

My chest and throat, my dear Hal, are well. I have still a slight cough, but nothing to signify....

I never acted in all Yorkshire before. I do not know why, during my "first theatrical career,"
I did not, but so it was. My harvest now is not likely to be very great, for the prices at
the theatres in Leeds and Hull are very low, the theatres not large, and so habitually deserted
that an occasional attraction of a few nights hardly has time to rouse the people from their
general indifference to these sorts of exhibitions. However, I am both living and saving, and
am content.

We have in our last letters got upon those subjects which, upon principle and by choice, I
avoid,--bottomless speculations, wherein the mind, attempting to gaze, falls from the very
brink and is drowned, as it were, at the very surface of them.

Your theory of partial immortality is abhorrent to me--I can use no other term. Pray conceive
me rightly--'tis an abhorrence of the opinion, which does not include you for holding it; for
though my whole being, moral and mental, revolts from certain notions, this is a mere necessity
of my nature, as to contemplate such issues is the necessity of certain others, differently
organized from mine.

I would rather disbelieve in the immortality of my own soul than suppose the boon given to
me was withheld from any of my fellow-creatures. Besides, I did not, in the position I placed
before you, suggest the efficacy of any special kind of idea of God, as connecting the holder
of it with Him.

For aught I can tell, the noble conception of the Divinity, formed out of the extension of
the noble qualities of his own soul by the noblest man, may be further from any adequate idea
of God than the gross notion of a log-worshipper is from the spiritual conception of the most
spiritually minded man (only remember I don't believe this). But, inasmuch as it is something
out of himself, beyond himself, to which the religious element of his nature aspires--that
highest element in the human creature, since it combines the sense of reverence and the sense
of duty, no matter how distorted or misapplied--it is an idea of a God, it is a manifestation
of the germ of those capacities which, enlightened and cultivated, have made (be it with due
respect spoken) the God of Fénelon and of Channing. I do not believe that any human creature,
called by God into this life, is without some notion of a Divinity, no matter how mean, how
unworthy, how seldom thought of, how habitually forgotten.

Superstition, terror, hope, misery, joy--every one of these sentiments brings paroxysms in
every man's life when some idea of God is seized upon, no matter of what value, no matter how
soon relinquished, how evanescent. Eternity is long enough for the progress of those that we
see lowest in our moral scale. You know I believe in the progress of the human race, as I do
in its immortality; and the barbarous conception of the Divinity of the least advanced of that
race confirms me in this faith as much as the purest Christianity of its foremost nations and
individuals. Revelation, you say, alone gives any image of God to you; but which Revelation?
When did God begin, or when has He ceased, to reveal Himself to man? And is it in the Christian
Revelation that you find your doctrine of partial immortality and partial annihilation? I believe
I told you once of my having read in America a pamphlet suggesting that sin eventually put
out, destroyed, annihilated, and did away with, those souls of which it took possession; this
is something like your present position, and I do not know when I received so painful an impression
as from reading that pamphlet, or a profound distress that lasted so long, from a mere abstract
proposition addressed to my imagination.

I believe all God's creatures have known Him, in such proportion as He and they have chosen;
i.e., to none hath He left Himself utterly without witness; to some that witness has been the
perfect life and doctrine of Jesus Christ, the most complete revelation of God that the world
has known.

All have known Him, by His great grace, in some mode and measure; and therefore I believe all
are immortal: none have known Him as He is, and but few in any age of the world have known
Him as they might; and an eternity of progress holds forth, to my mind, the only hope large
enough to compensate for the difference of advantages here, and to atone for the inadequate
use of those advantages.

Dearest Harriet, I hate not to make an effort to answer you, and you like, above all things,
this species of questioning, speculating, and discussing. But there is something to me almost
irreverent in thus catching up these everlasting themes, as it were, in the breathing-time
between my theatrical rehearsals and performances. You will not mistake me. I know that the
soul may be about its work (does not George Herbert say

    "Who sweeps a room, as for Thy laws,
    Makes that and the action fine"?)

even at such times, but a deep and difficult mental process should not be snapped at thus.

You know I never can think, and to think on such subjects to any purpose would almost necessarily
involve thinking on none others; and but for my desire to please you, and not put aside with
apparent disregard your favorite mental exercises, I should be as much ashamed as I am annoyed
by the crude utterance of crude notions upon such subjects to which you compel me.

You say our goodness and benevolence are not those of God: in quantity, surely not; but in
quality? Are there two kinds of positive goodness? I read this morning the following passage
in a book by an American, which has been lent to me by a young Oxford man whom I met, and fell
much in love with, at Carolside--he is a great friend of Dr. Hampden's: "The greater, purer,
loftier, more complete the character, so is the inspiration; for he that is true to conscience,
faithful to reason, obedient to religion, has not only the strength of his own virtue, wisdom,
and piety, but the whole strength of Omnipotence on his side; for goodness, truth, and love,
as we conceive them, are not one thing in man and another in God, but the same thing in each."
I agree with this, dear Hal, and not with you, upon this point.

These speculations are a severe effort to my mind, and, besides shrinking from the mere mental
labor of considering them, I find it difficult, in the rapid and desultory manner in which
I must needs answer letters, to place even the few ideas that occur to me upon them clearly
and coherently before you.

Did I tell you that that impudent---- I've no more room, I'll tell you in my next. Give my
love to Dorothy, and

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     HULL, Saturday, December 4th, 1847.

I did tolerably uncomfortably without Jeffreys [a man-servant who had left me], and that, you
know, was very well. I paid old Mrs. Dorr something extra for doing all the work in the rooms
upstairs, had a fire made in the little man-servant's room in the hall, and, after twelve o'clock,
established Hayes therein to attend to my visitors. My table was laid for dinner in the front
drawing-room, and at dinner-time wheeled into the back drawing-room, where, you know, I always
sit; and after my dinner wheeled out again, and the things all removed in the other room by
Hayes. The work is really nothing at all, and it would have been most unnecessary to have hunted
up a man-servant for a couple of weeks, for last and next week are the only two that I expect
to pass in Orchard Street, before I remove to my King Street lodgings.

You speculate more, dear Hal, than I do, and among all things on that Covent Garden performance,
that "Series of Scenes from various Plays of Shakespeare, to be given in his honor, and towards
the purchase of his house at Stratford-on-Avon." I suppose it will be a very protracted exhibition,
but my only reflection upon the subject was, that I was glad to perceive that my share of it
came early in the course of events.

I had no idea of proposing Hero [my dog] as your sister's inmate, but supposed he would be
harbored in the stables, the kennels, or some appropriate purlieu, be sufficiently well fed,
and take his daily exercise in your society. This was my vision of Hero's existence under your
auspices, and, as you may readily believe, I had no idea of quartering him on the reluctant
dogmanity of anybody....

I have just had a charming letter from Charles Sedgwick; if I can remember, I will keep it
to show it to you.

Order your boots, or anything else, to be sent to me, dear Hal, but you know I shall not be
with you yet for a month, and possibly not then; for though no pleasant engagement (how nice
it is of you to suggest that!) would interfere with my coming to St. Leonard's, unpleasant
ones might; any opportunity of making money certainly would, and such may occur to interfere
with my present plans, which stand thus: I return to town to-morrow (there is but one evening
train, so I must travel all night to rehearse on Monday morning for the "Shakespeare Memorial
Night," on Tuesday); I shall remain in London a week, and on the following Monday go down to
Bannisters for a fortnight, which will bring me within a few days of the expiration of my term
in Orchard Street, and I shall return from Bannisters to move myself; on the following Monday,
the 3d of January, I will, please God and you, come down to St. Leonard's....

I was so ill in spirit yesterday that I could not write to you. I am better to-day. Thank God,
my patience and courage do not often or long forsake me!...

---- has written again to borrow money of me; and that impudent Liverpool manager, who borrowed,
i.e. did not pay me, my last night's earnings, when you were there with me, has written to
say that, if I will go to Liverpool and act for his benefit, he will pay me what he owes me;
to which I have replied that, when he has paid me what he owes me, we will see about further
transactions with each other. Certainly "Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time."

Oh, my dear! in Parker's "Discourse upon Religion"--the book I told you I was reading--I light
upon this passage: "The indolent and the sensual love to have a visible master in spiritual
things, who will spare them the agony of thought." Is not that definition of thought after
my own heart, and just as I should have written it?

God bless you. Give my love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

  DEAR HARRIET,

I have not yet read either of Mrs. Gaskell's books, but I mean to do so. I have just got through,
with unbounded amazement, a book called "Realities," written by a Miss L----, for whom Lady
M---- has taken a great fancy. A more extraordinary production--realities with a vengeance--I
certainly have seldom read; and the book is in such contrast with the manner and appearance
of the authoress that it will be a long time before I get over my surprise at both.

Imagine this lady having thought proper to introduce in her story an eccentric vagabond of
a woman, whom she has called "Fanny Kemble." Upon Lady M----'s asking her--I think with some
pardonable indignation, considering that I am her intimate friend--how she came to do such
an unwarrantable thing; if she was not aware that "Fanny Kemble" was the real name of a live
woman at this moment existing in English society, Miss L---- ingenuously replied, "Oh dear!
that she'd never thought of that: that she only knew it was a celebrated dramatic name, and
so she had put it into her book." Sancta Simplicitas! I should think I might sue her for libel
and defamation.

The books that women write now are a curious sign of the times, and an indication of great
changes in opinion, as well as alteration in practice.

After all, women are part men, "bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh." As long as they benefited--and
they did highly--by the predominance of the conservative spirit in civilized society, they
were the most timid and obstinate of conservatives. But emancipation, or, to speak more civilly,
freedom, is dawning upon them from various quarters; Democracy is coming to rule the earth;
and women are discovering that in that atmosphere they must henceforth breathe, and live, and
move, and have their being.

But the beginning of a great deal of male freedom is mere emancipation; and so it will be,
I suppose, with women. The drunken exultation of Caliban is no bad illustration of the emancipation
of a slave; and the ladies, more gracefully intoxicated with the elixir vitæ of liberty, may
rejoice no more to "scrape trencher or wash dish," but write books (more or less foolish) instead.

Do you remember that delightful negro song, the "Invitation to Hayti," that used to make you
laugh so?

    "Brudder, let us leave
      Buckra land for Hayti:
    Dar we be receive'
      Grand as Lafayette!
    Make a mighty show,
      When we land from steamship,
    You be like Monroe,
      And I like Louis Philip!"

And when, anticipating the elevation of his noble womankind to the elegant and luxurious idlesse
of the favored white female, the poet sings:--

    "No more dey dust and scrub,
      No more dey wash and cookee;
    But all day long we see
      Dem read the nobel bookee."

(For read, read write.)

I am beset with engagements; and, though I am very anxious to get away abroad and rest, it
would be both foolish and wrong to reject these offers of money, tendered me on all sides,
speciously with such borrowing relations as I enjoy. Good-bye, dear.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [My reading at Eton was a memorably pleasant incident of my working
    days. Dr. Hawtrey at first proposed to me to read "Coriolanus;" but
    I always read it very ill, and petitioned for some other play,
    giving the name of a tragedy, "Macbeth;" a comedy, the "Merry Wives
    of Windsor;" and one of the more purely poetical plays, "The
    Tempest;" suggesting that the "boys" should vote, and the majority
    determine the choice. This seemed a mighty innovation on all
    received customs, and was met with numerous objections, which,
    however, did not prove insuperable; and "The Tempest," my own
    favorite of all Shakespeare's dramas, was chosen by my young
    auditors.

    A more charming audience to look at I never had than this opening
    flower of English boyhood, nor a more delightfully responsive one.

    The extraordinary merriment, however, invariably caused by any
    mention of the name of Stefano whenever it occurred puzzled me not a
    little; and when, in the last scene, I came to the lines, "Is not
    this Stefano your drunken butler? Why, he's drunk now!" I was
    interrupted with such a universal shout of laughter that I couldn't
    help inquiring the cause of it; when Mr. Stephen Hawtrey, Dr.
    Hawtrey's brother and one of the masters, told me that Stephano was
    the nickname by which he was habitually designated among the lads,
    which sufficiently accounted for their ecstasy of amusement at all
    the ludicrous sayings and situations of the Neapolitan "drunken
    butler." The Eton young gentlemen addressed me with a kind and
    flattering compliment through their captain, and rewarded whatever
    pleasure I had been able to give them by a very elegant present,
    which I hope my children will value, but which, upon the whole, is
    less precious to me than the recollection of their young faces and
    voices while I read to them.]

                                           ORCHARD STREET, December 8th.
  DEAREST HAL,

I was better than I expected to be after my night journey from Hull. Hayes and I had a carriage
to ourselves after ten o'clock, and I took advantage of that circumstance to lie on the floor
and get some rest. Of course I woke from each of my short naps aching rather severely, but
I did sleep the greater part of the night; and the two hours I spent in bed before beginning
the day unstiffened my bones and body. The night was beautifully fine when we left Hull, and
continued so more than half-way. We made our entrance into London, however, in wretched rain
and wind; but the weather has again become fine, and to-day is beautiful....

The detached stanza of French poetry you send me is a rather exaggerated piece of enthusiasm
as it stands thus alone; though, incorporated in the poem to which it belongs, the effect of
it may be striking. Some of the stanzas of Manzoni's "Ode to Napoleon" (a very noble poem),
detached from their context, might appear strained and exaggerated. That which has real merit
as a whole seldom gains by being disconnected.

Trouble yourself no more about poor Hero, my dear Hal; I am afraid he is lost. Mrs. Mulliner
left him in the area this morning, and as for nearly four hours now we have seen and heard
nothing of him, there is no doubt that he has made his escape into the wide world of London,
and I fear there is no chance of his finding his way back again. I should not have liked his
being at Jenny Wade's [a cottager at Ardgillan, whom Miss S---- pensioned]. In the present
condition of Ireland, I should scruple to quarter a dog in a poor person's cabin, giving them
for his support what they must needs feel might go some way towards the support of some starving
human being. In the stable or kennel of a rich house there is sure to be that much spent, if
not wasted, which may warrant the addition of such another member to the establishment; and
in your sister's stables and offices there can be no wretch who would look with envy upon the
meal eaten by my dog. I would rather a great deal have carried him to America, if I could have
managed it, than left him with any one but yourself. At Lenox everything, as well as everybody,
has plenty to eat; and he would have been cared for, for his own sake by the young folks, and
for mine by the old. But I fear he is so far provided for that I shall never see him again,
for his uneducated senses will surely never suffice to guide him back to Orchard Street....

You will be glad, because I am very glad, that poor Hero has come back; and I think his doing
so exhibits considerable nous in a brute so brutally brought up as he has been. He returned
with a bit of broken string round his neck; so somebody had already appropriated him, and tied
him up, and he had effected his escape, and come home--much, I think, to his credit. I was
delighted to see him, and poor Mulliner almost did a fit.

Good-bye, dearest Hal. Give Dorothy my best love. You shall have your boots before I come,
if Mr. W---- should call for them.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                    BRADFORD, YORKSHIRE, Thursday, 10th.

It is my opinion, my dear Hal, that you will see me again and again, and several times again,
before I leave England. I have just come to this place from Manchester, and have to-day received
offers of three new engagements, and have every prospect therefore of being detained until
the beginning of next month, and so beholding your well-beloved visage before I set off on
my travels; though, whenever I do go, it will certainly be from Folkestone, and not Dover.

I left the Scotts this morning with deep regret. Mr. Scott has not been well during this last
visit I have paid them, and I was much shocked to hear that he is threatened with disease of
the heart, sudden death at any moment. His wife and her sisters are excellently kind to me;
she has but two faults, an excessive humility and an excessive conscientiousness; they wouldn't
be bad for virtues, would they?

Mr. Scott's intercourse is delightful to me; his mind is deep and high, logical and practical,
humorous and tender, and he is as nearly good as a man can be. He has a still, calm manner
and slow, quiet speech, very composing to me. I wish it might be my good fortune to see more
of him.

Farewell, my dear. I begin to feel as if I never should get off; and instead of the pathetic
uncertainty as to when we might meet again, which was beginning to affect me with melancholy,
have fallen into a sort of reckless indifference about you: so sure am I that we shall see
each other, maybe, ad nauseam mutually, before I go. Give my love to Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The remarkable man of whom I have spoken in this letter, John
    Alexander Scott, was one of the most influential persons I have
    ever known, in the strongest sense of the word. I think the term,
    "an important human being," by which Sydney Smith described Francis
    Horner, might justly have been applied to Mr. Scott. The intimate
    friend of Edward Irving, Carlyle, and Maurice, he affected, to an
    extraordinary degree, the minds and characters of all those who were
    familiar with him; and his influence, like all the deepest and most
    powerful human influence, was personal.

    He delivered various courses of lectures, principally, I think, in
    Edinburgh--Dante being one of his favorite themes; and "Three
    Discourses" upon religious and moral subjects are, I think, all that
    remain in printed form of many that he delivered at various times
    and at various places. They are, as is always the case in the
    instance of his order of mind and character, though striking and
    powerful, very inadequate samples of his spirit and intellect.

    A very just tribute to his uncommon qualities and extraordinary
    power of influence appeared, after his death, in the Spectator. It
    was undoubtedly written by one who knew Mr. Scott well, and bore
    testimony, as all who ever had that privilege have done, to the
    singular force and virtue of his nature, and its penetrating and
    vivifying power over others.

    My last intercourse with him was a letter from her, hailing in
    his name the hope of seeing me at Montreux, in Switzerland, whither
    I was going in the expectation of finding them. The letter broke off
    in the middle, and ended with the news, calamitous to me, as to all
    who knew him, of his death. At the time when I visited them at
    Manchester, he had accepted some Professorship in the then newly
    established Owen's College.]

                                                  WOODSLEY HOUSE, Leeds.

I think, my dear Hal, your wish that I might see more of Mr. Scott and his family is likely
to be realized. To my great pleasure, I received a note from him the other day, telling me
that there was a general desire in Manchester to have the "Midsummer Night's Dream" given with
Mendelssohn's music. He wrote of this to me, expressing his hope that it might be done, and
that so I might be brought to them again; adding the kind and cordial words, "All here love
you"--which expression touched and gratified me deeply; and I hope that the reading may take
place, and that I shall have the privilege of a few days' more intercourse with that man.

The name of the noble woman whose impulse of humanity so overcame all self-considerations,
of whom he told me, was Miss Coutts-Trotter. [Nursing a person who was in a state of collapse
in the last stage of cholera, she had sought to bring back the dying woman's vitality by embracing
her closely, and breathing on her mouth her own breath of life and love.] ...

I can tell you of no other publications of Mr. Scott. It is the despair of his wife, sisters,
friends, and admirers that so few of his good words have been preserved. But in these days
of printing and publishing, proclaiming and producing, I am beginning to have rather a sympathy
with those who withhold, than with those who utter, all their convictions.... I have always
held that what people could put forth from them in any kind was less valuable than what they
could not--what they were compelled to retain--the reserve force of their mind and nature;
and thinking this, as I do, more and more, I regret less and less such instances as this of
Mr. Scott's apparently circumscribed sphere, by the non-publication of his lectures and discourses.
He is daily teaching a body of young men; and to such of them as are able to receive his teaching,
he will bequeath some measure of his spirit. It is doubtless a pleasure, and a help too, to
read the good books of good men; but there are many good men who write good books, and he is
among the few who cannot. He has suffered from ill health, particularly difficulties in the
head; and though his gift of extemporaneous speech is remarkable, he cannot compose for printing
without labor of the brain which is injurious to him. In this he also resembles Dr. Follen,
of whom he reminds me, who wrote little, and published less.

I do not know anything of Miss Muloch--that, I think, is the name of the writer whose book
you mention as having notices of my uncle and aunt introduced into it....

Publicity is the safest of all protections, as in some sense freedom is also. Women, I suppose,
will find this out, as the people are finding it out; but in the beginning of their working
out their newly discovered theories into rational practice, people in general, and women in
particular, will do some wonderful things. The women especially, having for the most part had
hitherto little positive or practical knowledge of life, will be apt "to make all earth amazed"
with the first performances of various kinds of their new experience; but it is all in the
day's work of the good old world, which is ordained to see reasonable and good men and women
upon its ancient, ever-blooming surface, in greater numbers henceforward than hitherto: but
the beginnings are strange....

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                               2, PARK PLACE, HALIWELL LANE, MANCHESTER.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

At the conclusion of my reading yesterday evening, letters were put into my hands containing
no fewer than six offers of new engagements; and, situated as I am, I cannot reject this money.
I have endeavored, in answering these invitations, to get the readings all as close to each
other as possible, and I now think that I may get off about the 22d; but the same sort of interruption
to my plans may occur again, and thus I may be delayed, though I have got my passport and have
even written to bespeak rooms at an hotel....

My dearest Hal, you have written to me three days running, and good part of each of your letters
is disquisition on Calvinism.... Thus I have here lying by my side nine pages of your handwriting.
I have just swallowed my dinner, after travelling from London, and sit down to discharge part
of my debt, and in half an hour (I look at the watch, and it says ten minutes) I must go and
dress myself for my reading, and here still will be the nine pages unanswered to-morrow morning,
when I must set off for Manchester.

You talk of the logic of my mind, my dear friend, but my mind has no logic whatever; and in
so far as that is concerned, Calvinism need look for as little help as hindrance from me. I
do not believe I can think; and from the difficulty, not to say impossibility, I find in doing
so, I don't think I would if I could; and if that is not logical, neither is that most admirable
of all chains of reasoning, "Je n'aime pas les épinards," etc. There, now, here comes my maid
to interrupt me, and there's an end of epistolary correspondence; I must go and dress.

Now it is to-morrow morning, dear Hal, and until the breakfast comes I can talk a few more
words with you.... But don't you know that one reason why I appear to you to have positive
mental results, is because I have no mental processes? I never think; for, as a lawyer would
say, whenever I do, it seems to me as if there was no proposition (a few arithmetical and scientific
ones excepted perhaps, like two and two are four) which does not admit of its own reverse.
I don't say this is so, but it seems so to me; and whenever I attempt to put the notions that
float through my brain, on which I float comfortably enough over infinite abysses of inconclusion,
into precise form and shape, there is not one of them that does not seem to be quite controvertible;
nor did I ever utter or assume a position of which I felt most assured while uttering it, without
perceiving almost immediately that it was assailable on many sides. This is extremely disagreeable
to me; the labor necessary to establish any mental or moral proposition simply on intellectual
grounds, appears to me so great that I hate the very idea of it, and then I hate myself for
my laziness, and wonder if some "judgment" does not await wits that will not work because work
is tiresome. But if I appear to you to have strong convictions, it is because I have strong
mental and moral impulses, instincts, intuitions, and never allow myself to weaken them by
that most debilitating process, long-continued questioning, leading to no result.

You ask me what book I read now to put me to sleep--why, Murray's "Handbook for France;" ditto,
for Savoy, Switzerland, and Piedmont; ditto, for the North of Italy, and the foreign "Bradshaw."
These furnish my lullaby now-a-nights.

I read yesterday, in the railroad carriage, a little story translated from the French by Lady
(Lucy) Duff Gordon, with which I was greatly touched and delighted. It costs one shilling,
and is called "The Village Doctor," and is one of those pale green volumes headed, "Reading
for Travellers," to be found on all the railroad bookstands. I thought it charming, and a most
powerful appeal to the imagination in behalf of Roman Catholicism.

I have already told you what route I intend to take, and I think we shall be a week or ten
days going from Paris to Turin, coasting all the way from Marseilles, as I wish to do.

I do not read at Manchester to-day, but Hallé, who conducts the music, wishes me to attend
a rehearsal, which, of course, I am anxious to do at his request. On Monday I read the "Midsummer
Night's Dream," and on Tuesday "Macbeth," at Mr. Scott's desire. To-morrow I shall, I hope,
hear Mr. Scott read and comment again on the Bible, and I am looking forward with great pleasure
to being with him and Mrs. Scott again.

No doubt there are several more direct ways of getting to Nice than coasting round, as I propose
doing, but I wish to see that Mediterranean shore, and have no desire to travel hard....

Adelaide Procter [the daughter of my friends was to be my companion in this journey] has no
enthusiasm whatever for me; she does not know me at all, and I do not know her at all well;
and I do not think, when we know each other more, that she will like me any better. Her character
and intellectual gifts, and the delicate state of her health, all make her an object of interest
to me.... I love and respect Mr. Procter very much; and her mother, who is one of the kindest-hearted
persons possible, has always been so good to me, that I am too glad to have the opportunity
of doing anything to oblige them. I am going to Turin because, as they have entrusted their
daughter to me, I will not leave her until I see her safe in the house to which she is going;
I owe that small service to the child of her parent.... Dear Harriet, if you will come to Switzerland
this summer, nothing but some insuperable impediment shall prevent my meeting you there. If
you are "old and stiff," I am fat, stuffy, puffy, and old; and you are not of such proportions
as to break a mule's back, whereas if I got on one I should expect it to cast itself and me
down the first convenient precipice, only to avoid carrying me to the next.

I spent Thursday evening with Mrs. Jameson; she had a whole heap of people at her house, and
among them the American minister and his niece--Philadelphians....

I do not pity Mrs. Jameson very much in her relations with Lady Byron. I never thought theirs
a real attachment, but a connection made up of all sorts of motives, which was sure not to
hold water long, and never to hold it after it had once begun to leak. It was an instance of
one of those relationships which are made to wear out, and as it always appeared so to me,
I have no great sympathy with either party in this foreseen result.

I pity Mrs. Jameson more because she is mortified than because she is grieved, and I pity Lady
Byron because she is more afraid of mortifying than of giving her pain. It is all very uncomfortable;
but real sorrow has as little to do with it now as real love ever had.... I am writing to you
at Mr. Scott's, where I arrived yesterday afternoon, the beginning of my letter having been
written in London, the middle at Bradford, and the end here.

It is Sunday afternoon: our morning service is over. I am sorry to say I find both Mr. and
Mrs. Scott quite unwell, the former with one of those constitutional headaches from which he
has suffered so much for many years. They incapacitate him for conversation or any mental exertion,
and I am a great loser by it, as well as grieved for his illness.... Farewell.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Lucy Austin, the clever and handsome daughter of a cleverer and
    handsomer mother--Mrs. John Austin, wife of the eminent lawyer and
    writer--excited a great deal of admiration, as the wife of Sir
    Alexander Duff Gordon, in the London society of my day. Loss of
    health compelled her to pass the last years of her life in the East;
    and the letters she wrote during her sojourn there are not only full
    of charm and interest, but bear witness to a widespread personal
    influence over the native population among whom she lived, the
    result of her humane benevolence towards, and kindly sympathy for,
    them.

    One or two amusing incidents occurred with regard to my reading of
    the "Midsummer Night's Dream" at Manchester. The gentleman who had
    the management of the performance wrote to me offering me forty
    pounds for my share of it--a very liberal price, which I declined,
    my price for one of my readings being invariably twenty pounds. At
    the end of the performance one of the gentlemen of the committee
    came to pay me my salary, which having done, he expressed himself,
    in his own behalf and that of his fellow-managers, greatly obliged
    to me for the liberality I had exhibited (honesty, it seems to me)
    in not accepting double my usual terms when they offered it to me.
    "And," said he, drawing a five-pound note from his pocket-book, "I
    really--we really--if you would--if you could--allow us to offer you
    five pounds in addition----" The gentleman's voice died away, and he
    seemed to be becoming nervous, under the effect of the steadfast
    seriousness with which, in spite of the greatest inclination to
    burst out laughing, I listened to this strange proposal. The
    five-pound note fluttered a little between his finger and thumb, and
    for one moment I had a diabolical temptation to twitch it from him
    and throw it into the fire. This prompting of Satan, however, I
    womanfully resisted, and merely civilly declined the gratuity; and
    the gentleman left me with profuse acknowledgments of the service I
    had rendered them and my "extreme liberality."

    My friend Charles Hallé, coming in just at this moment, was thrown
    into fits of laughter at the transaction, and my astonishment at it.

    Hallé was a friend of ours, an admirable musician, and a most
    amiable man, and one of the best masters of our modern day. His
    style was more remarkable for sensibility, delicacy, and refinement,
    than for power or brilliancy of execution; but I preferred his
    rendering of Beethoven to that of all the other virtuosi I ever
    heard; and some of the hours of greatest musical enjoyment I have
    had in my life I owe to him, when he and his friend Joachim, playing
    almost, as it seemed, as much for their own delight as ours,
    enchanted a small circle of enthusiastic and grateful listeners,
    gathered round them in my sister's drawing-room.

    Mr. Scott's comment upon my reading gave me great pleasure. "It was
    good," he said, "from beginning to end; but you are Theseus."
    Oddly enough, a similar compliment was paid me in the same words at
    the end of a reading that I gave for the Working Men's Institute in
    Brighton, when my friend, Mr. R----, kindly complimenting me on the
    performance, said, "It was all delightful: but you are Henry V.,"
    and whatever difference of opinion may have existed among my critics
    as to my rendering the tragic and comic characters of Shakespeare's
    plays, I think the heroic ones were those in which I ought to have
    succeeded best, for they were undoubtedly those with which I had
    most sympathy.]

                                            FULFORD, YORK, Saturday, 3d.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I am amused at your gasping anxiety to be told where I am going, as if I was about to depart
into some non-postal region, where letter of yours should never reach me more, instead of spending
the next week in Edinburgh, which surely you did know.... My dearest Hal, J---- W---- has just
come into my room, bringing the news of the Emperor of Russia's death. It has seized me quite
hysterically, and the idea of the possible immediate cessation of carnage and desolation, and
war and wickedness (in that peculiar shape), has shaken me inexpressibly, and I am shocked
at the tears of joy that are raining from my eyes, so that I can't see the paper on which I
am writing to you; and if I can thus weep my thanksgivings for the news of this man's death,
who have no dear son, or brother, or husband on that murderous Crimean soil, think of the shout
of rejoicing which will be his only dirge throughout France and England. I am shocked at the
exclamation of gratitude which escaped my lips when I heard the announcement. Poor human soul,
how terrible that its sudden summons from its heavy and difficult responsibilities should thus
be hailed by any other human creature! and yet how many will draw a long breath, as of a great
deliverance, at this news!

I can hardly write at all, my hand shakes so, and I cannot think of anything else; and yet
I had purposed to send dear Dorothy some account of her family here, who are all well and most
kind to me. I will wait a while....

  DEAREST DOROTHY,

I sit here in this pleasant room [I was in Miss Wilson's home], the prospect from which is
improved by the rising of the river, which presents the appearance of a lake. The snowdrops
hang their white clusters above the brown mould of the garden beds, and watery rays of sunshine
slant shyly across the meadows: the whole is very sweet and peaceful, and I was enjoying it
extremely, when the report of this imperial death broke like a peal of thunder over it all,
as unexpectedly as terribly.

To-morrow I am to go and hear afternoon service at the minster, which I have never seen. Everything
is done for my pleasure and satisfaction that can be thought of, and I feel very grateful for
it. The thought of the old love and friendship between my dead kindred and the former owners
of this house makes the place pleasant with a saddish pleasantness to me.

Dear Dorothy, I wish you were here; I write you a very affectionate kiss, and am

                              Yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     GEORGE HOTEL, BANGOR, Monday, 20th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

If you had given way to your impulse of accompanying us to Wales, I do not think you could
have returned under three days, or that even by that time you could in any degree have recovered
from the effect of our to-day's passage. Every creature on board was sick except M---- and
myself....

"A quelque chose malheur est bon," and the indisposition I was suffering all yesterday preserved
me from the lesser evil of sea-sickness. This was my experience the last time I crossed the
Atlantic, when my voyage was preceded by a week of serious illness, and during the whole passage
I did not suffer from sea-sickness....

On our arrival here, we found that the excellent Miss Roberts [mistress of the charming hotel
at Bangor] had treated us exactly as the last time; i.e., "A party were just finishing dinner
in our sitting-room. She was very sorry, very sorry indeed; but it would be ready for us in
less than a quarter of an hour;" and we were thrust provisionally into another, where letters,
books, workboxes, india-rubber shoes, and smoking-caps attested that we had no business, and
suggested that their owners were in all probability the "party" finishing off their dinner
in our bespoken apartment, which gave me an inclination to toss all the things in the room
about, and poke the smoking-caps into the india-rubber shoes; but I didn't. What innumerable
temptations I do resist! I assured Miss Roberts I was very ill-tempered, and proceeded to make
assurance doubly sure by blowing her up sky-high, to which she merely replied with a Welsh
"Eh! come si ha da far?" and declared that if I was in her place I should do just the same,
which excited my wrath to a pitch of fury.

We had some lunch, and then set off to the quarries. The afternoon was bright and beautiful,
and we were charmed with the drive and all we saw, M---- never ceasing to exclaim with fervent
satisfaction at the comfortable, cheerful, healthy, well-to-do appearance of the people and
their habitations--a most striking and suggestive contrast to all we had seen in poor Ireland,
certainly....

We have just done dinner, and M---- is fast asleep on the sofa, with "Pilgrim's Progress" in
her arms. My head aches, and my nerves twitch with fatigue and pain, but I am better than I
was yesterday.

The trains from this place are very inconvenient. The one we have to go by starts from here
at nine, and does not reach London till half-past seven in the evening, so we shall have a
wearisome day of it....

Give my kindest love to dear Mrs. Taylor and "the girls." I shall think of them with infinite
anxiety, and pray, "whenever I remember to be holy," that this dreadful war may now soon come
to a close, and they be spared further anguish. [Colonel Richard Taylor, Miss S----'s nephew,
was with the army in the Crimea.]

                              I am ever most affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                             BATH, Monday, December 9th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

... You cannot think how forlorn I feel, walking in and out of our room here without farewell
or greeting from you; and yet the place where you have been with me has a remembered presence
of your affectionate companionship that makes it pleasant, compared to those where I go for
the first time and have no such friendly association to cheer me. My disposition, as you know,
is averse to all strangeness, and takes little delight in novelty; and the wandering life I
lead compels me to both, forbidding all custom and the comfortable feeling of habit and use,
which make me loath to leave a place where I have stayed only three days, for another where
I have never stayed at all.

I was not very happy at Oxford. The beautiful place impressed me sadly; but that was because
I was very unwell and sad while I was there. The weather was horrible; a dark greasy fog pervaded
the sky the whole time. The roads were so muddy as to render riding odious, and the streets
so slimy that walking was really dangerous as well as disagreeable. Still, I saw some things
with which I was much charmed, and have no doubt that, if I could but have had an hour's daylight,
I should have been delighted with the place altogether.

E---- S---- came down from London on Thursday morning, and took me to see the fine collection
of drawings by Raphael and Michael Angelo at the Taylor Institute, and I spent three hours
there in a state of great enjoyment. I wandered in ignorant wonderment through the Bodleian
Library and the Ashmolean Museum, with A---- M----, who seemed quite as little familiar with
the learned treasures of the place as myself. He took me to see his own college, Christ Church,
with which, especially the great dining-hall, I was enchanted; and with the fine avenue at
the back of the colleges, and the tower and cloisters of Magdalen.

I have no doubt I should enjoy another visit to Oxford very much; but I was miserable while
I was there, and could not do justice to the beauty of the place. The inn where I stayed was
dirty and uncomfortable, and dearer than any I have yet stayed at. My sitting-room was dingy
and dark, and I was glad when I came into this large light sitting-room of ours again, out
of which, however, they have removed the piano--a loss I have not thought it worth while to
replace, as I go to Cheltenham on Wednesday afternoon.... You ask what I would sell my "English
Tragedy" for. Why, anything anybody would give me for it. It cannot be acted, and nobody reads
plays nowadays--small blame to them....

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                             CHELTENHAM, Thursday, 12th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I found your loving greeting on my arrival here yesterday evening. I am troubled at your account
of yourself.... What things these bodies of ours are! I sometimes think that, when we lay them
down in the earth, we shall have taken leave of all our sinfulness; and yet there are sins
of the soul that do not lodge in the flesh, though the greater proportion of our sins, I think,
do: and when I reflect how little control we have over our physical circumstances, what with
inherited disease and infirmity, and infirmity and disease incurred through the ignorant misguidance
of others during our youth, and our own ignorant misdirection afterwards, I think the miseries
we reap are punishment enough for much consequent sin; and that, once freed from the "body
of this death," we shall cease to be subject to sin in anything like the same degree.... It
is very muddy underfoot; but if the sky does not fall, I shall ride out on my old post-horse
at twelve o'clock.

Certainly your question, as to where the wise men are who are to encounter the difficulties
of legislation for this country next spring, was an exclamation--a shriek--and not an interrogation,
addressed to me at any rate; for though I suppose God's quiver is never empty of arrows, and
that some are always found to do His work, it may be that saving this country from a gradual
decline of greatness and decay of prosperity may not be work for which He has appointed hands,
and which therefore will not be done....

I declined being in the room we formerly occupied in this house, because I feared, now the
days are so much shorter, that it would be inconveniently dark. I am in a charming light room,
with three windows down to the ground, and a bewitching paper of pale green, with slender gold
rods running up it, all wound round with various colored convolvuli. It's one of the prettiest
papers I ever saw, and makes me very happy. You know how subject I am even to such an influence
as that of a ridiculous wall-paper....

I have had no conversation with Mr. Churchill; but, in spite of my requesting him not to be
at the trouble of moving the piano into my present sitting-room, as I am here for so short
a time, I find it installed here this morning. He certainly is the black swan of hotel-keepers;
and how kind and indulgent people are to me everywhere!... My young devotee, Miss A----, acquiesced
very cordially in all my physical prescriptions for mental health, and did not seem to take
at all amiss my plunging her hysterical enthusiasm first into perspirations, and then into
cold baths.

Her maid has been with me this morning, with lovely fresh flowers--a bunch of delicious Persian
lilac, and two flower-pots full of various mosses, smelling so fragrantly of mere earthy freshness
that no perfume ever surpassed it.

The only other greeting she sent me was some pretty lines of Victor Hugo's, with which I was
unacquainted, and which I send you, not for their singular inappropriateness as applied to
me, but for their graceful turn:

    "Tu es comme l'oiseau posé pour un instant
      Sur des rameaux trop frêles,
    Que sent ployer la branche, et qui chante pourtant
      Sachant qu'il a des ailes;"

which I translate impromptu thus:

    Thou art like the bird that alights, and sings
    Though the frail spray bends, for he knows he has wings.

God bless you, my dear. Love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               WORCESTER, Tuesday, 17th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

Those pretty French lines I sent you are by Victor Hugo, a man of great genius, but almost
the most exaggerated writer of the exaggerated modern school of French style. Some of his poems,
in spite of this, are fine and charming; and, indeed, there is not much better French to be
found than the prose of some of the French writers of novels and essays. Madame George Sand,
Merimée, Ste. Beuve, write with admirable simplicity and force.

I sent my young adorer back, in return for her quatrain, Millevoye's lines on the withered
leaf--a far more appropriate image of my peregrinations.

... You ask after my audiences. At Bath the same singular-looking gentleman, who is beautiful
as well as singular looking, and wonderfully like my uncle John, came and sat at my last morning
reading in the same conspicuous place. He is a helpless invalid, and was wheeled in his chair
through my private room, to the place which he occupied near my reading-stage. His name is
C----, and he and his wife were intimate friends of John Kemble's, and sent to beg I would
see them after the reading. As I had to start immediately for Cheltenham, this was impossible,
which I was very sorry for, as I should like to have spoken to that beautiful face.

You impress upon me the value of the blessing of health, and I think I estimate it duly; for
although I said it mattered little how I was, I meant that, isolated as I am, my ill health
would affect and afflict fewer persons than that of some one who had bonds and ties of one
sort and another.... My work goes on without interruption, and I think with little variation
in my mode of performing it; and I make efforts of this kind, sometimes under such circumstances
of physical suffering and weakness, that I am almost hard-heartedly incredulous about the difficulty
of doing anything that one has to do--which is not very reasonable either, for the force of
will, the nervous energy, which carries one through such efforts, depends itself on physical
conditions, which vary in different temperaments, and in the same temperament at different times.

The first day of my arrival in Cheltenham I received a note from Miss A----'s mother--a very
touching expression of thanks for what she calls my kindness to her child, full of anxiety
about the training and guiding of her mind and character, accepting with much gratitude my
offer of personal acquaintance with her daughter (personal acquaintance is an excellent antidote
to enthusiasms), whom she brought herself the next day to see me.... In our conversation I
insisted much on the importance of physical training, and commended to her, after the highest
of all help (without which, indeed, none other can avail), systematic and regular exercise,
and systematic and sedulous occupation, both followed as a positive duty; all possible sedatives
for the mind and imagination; and the utmost attention and care to all the physical functions.
I gave her the wisdom which I have bought; but she will buy her own, or I am much mistaken....
I went on Sunday to the cathedral to hear afternoon service, but was late, and did not get
within the choir, but sat on a chair in a lonely corner of the transept, and followed the service
from without the pale. Yesterday, at my usual hour for exercise, I went to walk by the river;
but rain came on, and I finished my walk under the cloisters, which rang from end to end with
the shrill shouts of a parcel of school-boys, let out for their noon-day recess. Last night
the weather was fearful, a perfect storm of wind and rain, so that, though my audience was
small, I was agreeably surprised to find I had any at all.

I have not seen the letter you refer to in the Times, but think it very likely Charles Greville
should write such a one, as I heard him say he should give the public a piece of his mind on
the subject, and he occasionally does write in the Times, and his views are precisely what
you describe those of "Carolus" to be.

Good-bye, dear. I have a bundle of violets from you this morning, for which many thanks. Love
to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       18, ORCHARD STREET, December 7th.

I have no patience with letters at all, my dear Hal. I am conscious half the time I write that
I don't say clearly what I mean, and when I get your answers, I have that disagreeable conviction
confirmed. Perhaps it is just as well, however; for the sort of feverish impatience I have
very often while writing, because of the insufficiency of the process to express, as rapidly
and distinctly as I wish, my thoughts, is so excessive, as to be childish. I am content, henceforth,
to answer you to the best of my circumstances (for it is not to the best of my ability, really)
on any subject you please. It is enough that my words are of use to you, and God knows it signifies
nothing at all that I cannot conceive how they should be so. You have misunderstood me, or
I misexpressed myself, with regard to the ground of my objecting to write upon the subjects
we have lately discussed in our letters. I do not think it irreverent to advert to the highest
subjects at any time. That which is most profoundly serious to me, is always very near my thoughts--so
much so that it mingles constantly with them and my words in a manner rather startling and
shocking, I think, to people whose minds are parcelled out into distinct and detached divisions--pigeon-holes,
as it were--for the sacred and profane, and whose seriousness never comes near their mirth.
This is not at all the case with me, with whom they are apt to run into each other very frequently;
seriousness is perhaps more habitual to my mind than folly, but my laughter and jests are not
very remotely allied to my deepest convictions.

My instincts of vital truth being a very essential part of me, must go with me to the playhouse,
rehearsals, and performances, and all the intermediate time of various occupations, so that
it is not my "veneration" which is shocked at the superficial mode in which I have handled
these themes, while writing of them to you, but my "conscientiousness," which suggests the
whole time that such matters should not be spoken of without sufficient previous process of
reflection, and that it is behaving irreverently to anything that requires consideration to
talk of it crudely without any. If the sincerest and most strenuous mental application can
hardly enable us to arrive at glimpses of the truth upon those subjects, there is an impertinent
levity in uttering mere notions about them which have been submitted to no such test. You do
think, and though you come to no conclusions, are perfectly entitled to utter your non-conclusiveness;
but I have a cowardly dread of the labor of thinking steadily and consecutively upon these
difficult subjects, and I have certainly not at present the proper leisure or opportunities
for doing so, and therefore but for your last letter I should say it was a shame to speak upon
them. But since the vague suggestions which arise in my mind upon these only important matters
comfort and are of any use to you, then, my beloved friend, they have a value and virtue, and
I shall no longer feel reluctant to utter them.

I have written this last page since my return from Covent Garden Theatre, where I have been
enacting the dying scene of Queen Katharine, and doing what I am as sorry for as I can be for
anything of that kind.

At the conclusion of my performance the audience called for me, but I was seized with a perfect
nervous terror at the idea of going on, and left the house as quickly as possible.

All the other actors will be called for, and will go on, and I shall incur unpleasant comments
and probably have very untrue motives attributed to me for having, as it must appear, ungraciously
withdrawn myself from the public call. This does not trouble me very deeply, but I am sorry
for it because I am afraid it will be misinterpreted and noticed, and considered disrespectful,
which it was not....

Give my dear love to Dorothy. I hope to be with you on the 3d of January.

                              I am ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       18, ORCHARD STREET, Tuesday, 8th.

Now I must lump my answer to you, my dearest Hal--a thing that I hate doing; but here are three
unanswered letters of yours on my table, and I shall never get through the payment of them
if one letter may not do for the three, for every day brings fresh claims of this sort, and
I feel a kind of smothering sensation as they accumulate round me, such as might attend one's
gradually sinking into a well: what though Truth were at the bottom--if one was drowned before
one got to her?...

Send the pamphlet on "Bread" to Lenox, and write to Elizabeth Sedgwick about it--that is pure
humanity, and I see you do not think I shall copy the recipe and measurements correctly. (It's
pouring with rain, and thundering as loud as it knows how in England)....

My spirits are fair enough, though the first evening I spent alone here, after I came back,
tried them a little, and I had a cowardly impulse to rush in next door [my friends the Miss
Hamiltons, Mrs. Fitzhugh's sisters, were my neighbors] to be with some friendly human beings;
but I reflected that this would never do--those who are alone must learn to be lonely.... This
was the only black hour I have had since my return to London....

I have finished the first volume of Grote's "History of Greece." O ye gods, ye beautiful gods
of Greece, that ever ye should have lived to become such immortal bores through the meritorious
labors of an eminent English historian! Thank Heaven, I have done with what has hitherto been
always the most attractive part of history to me--its legendary and poetical prologue (I hate
the history of my dear native land the moment the Commons begin to vote subsidies), and I do
not think I ever before rejoiced in passing from tradition to matter-of-fact in an historical
work. I have no doubt, now we have come down from Olympus, I shall enjoy Mr. Grote's great
work much more.

I have read through Morier's "Hadji Baba in England," while eating my dinner, in order not
to eat too fast, a precaution I learned years ago while eating my lonely dinners at Butler
Place day after day. (Of course Grote was too heavy as sauce for eating.) At other seasons
I have read through another number of the Dublin Magazine, and during my hair-combings continue
to enchant myself with "Wilhelm Meister." I am reading the "Wanderjahr," having finished the
"Lehrjahr." I never read the former in German before; it is altogether a wonderful book. I
practise before breakfast, and I have drawn for two hours every day lately. I have received
and returned visits, and when my daily exercise takes its place again among my occupations,
my time will be full, and I hope to bless God for my days, even now.... This answers you as
to my spirits....

I had a letter from E---- yesterday, desiring me to forward my book to them, and talking of
still remaining where they are, as long as the heat is endurable and the children continue well.

I had a note from Lady Duff Gordon yesterday, who is just returned from Rome, where she saw
my sister frequently and intimately; and she seems to think Adelaide very tolerably resigned
to remain where she is, especially as she has found a cupboard in her palazzo, which has so
delighted her that she is content to abide where such things are rare and she has one, rather
than return home where they are common and she might have many. In the mean time, seats in
the next Parliament are, it seems, to go begging, and Charles Greville has written to E----
again to come over and stand.... I disapprove of this incessant urging E---- to return, especially
as the Grevilles only want him to become a British legislator in order that she may open a
pleasant house in London and amuse them....

You ask me what I shall do with regard to America. If I act there, I shall do so upon the plan
I started with here; i.e., a nightly certainty, to be paid nightly: it is what the managers
send to offer me, and is, without doubt, the safest, if not the most profitable plan....

I am diverted with your rage at Liston [the eminent surgeon under whose care I had been]. I
must say, I wish he had been a little more attentive to me professionally....

My singing neighbors--I suppose lodgers for the season--have departed, or, at any rate, become
silent; I hear them no more, and make all my own music, which I prefer, though sometimes of
an evening, when I am not singing, the lonely silence round me is rather oppressive. But my
evenings are short; I dine at seven, and go to bed at ten; and in spite of my endeavors to
achieve a better frame of mind, I do look with positive joy at my bed, where, lying down, the
day will not only be past, but forgotten.... It is difficult for me not to rejoice when each
day ends....

Dear Hal, I dined with the Horace Wilsons, and in the evening my father came there. He said
Miss Cottin, with whom he was to have dined, was ill, and had put him off; that he had only
come up from Brighton the day before, and was going back to-morrow--to-day, i.e.; that he was
not well, but that Brighton agreed with him, and that he should steam about from Brighton to
Havre and Dieppe and Guernsey and Jersey, as that process suits him better than abiding on
dry land....

                                    ORCHARD STREET, Thursday, June 10th.

Of course, dear Harriet, I know that the officials of our public charities cannot be thrown
into paroxysms of pity by every case of misery brought before them; they would soon cease to
be relieving officers, and have to be relieved themselves. But "there is reason in roasting
of eggs," whatever that may mean: our forefathers knew, and so did Touchstone, for he talks
of "an ill-roasted egg, done all o' one side." I assure you when I went to the workhouse to
see after that wretched young girl who was taken up for sleeping in the park because she had
nowhere else to sleep in, though I cried like a Magdalene, and talked like a magpie, I felt
as if I was running my head against a stone wall all the time I appealed to the authorities
to save her from utter ruin. The only impression I seemed to make upon them was that of surprise
that any one should take to heart in such wise the case of some one not belonging to them.
Perhaps the worthy overseer thought me her sister in another sense from that in which I am
so, from the vehemence with which I urged upon him the imperative duty of snatching so young
a creature from the doom to which she seemed inevitably delivered over. All their answers reminded
me of Mephistopheles' reply to Faust's frantic pity for Gretchen, "She is not the first."

Now to answer your last question. I do not intend to cut the manager of the Princess's Theatre;
but I do not intend either to make any application to him. If he offers me a reasonable weekly
engagement, I will take it, and make him a curtsey; if he does not, I will do without it, and
live as I best may on what I have already earned, and what I can earn in the provinces, till
the spring....

C---- came up from Bath to London with me, and after talking politics, art, and literature,
began upon religion, which, not being controversially disposed, I declined, commending him
to the study of the newspaper, and, curling myself up in one of those charming long seats of
the Great Western railroad coaches, went to sleep, and so accomplished the latter part of my
journey, in spite of that dangerous proximity, an unconverted heterodox Protestant. Farewell,
my dearest Hal.

                              I am ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      18, ORCHARD STREET, December 10th.
  DEAREST HAL,

... I had a horrible day yesterday, from which I am not yet recovered this morning. It wound
up by the shock of hearing of Liston's death. There was something in my last intercourse with
him that made this unexpected intelligence very painful; and then his wonderful strength, his
great, noble frame, that seemed to promise so long and vigorous a hold on life, made his sudden
death very shocking. When I met him last in the park, he told me he was very ill, and had been
spitting up a quart of blood after walking twenty-five miles, and that there was something
all wrong with his throat; in spite of which, I was greatly shaken by the news of his death,
which was occasioned by aneurism in the throat.

I am marking "Wilhelm Meister" for you; it is a book that interests me almost more than any
other I could name; it is very painful, and I know nothing comparable to the conception and
execution of Mignon. The whole book is so wise, so life-like, so true, and so merciless in
its truth, that it is like life itself, endured by a stoic, an illustration of what existence
would be to a thoughtful mind without faith in God--that faith which alone can bear us undespairing
over the earth, where the mere doom of inevitable change would be enough to fill the human
soul with amazement and anguish.

Goethe's books always make me lay a terrified and aching hold on my religious faith; they show
me, even as life itself does, the need of steadfast belief in something better, if one would
not lie down and die from the mere sense of what has been endured, what is endured, and what
must be endured.

I forgot to tell you that I have had proposals again from the Norwich manager, and from Bath
and Bristol; and yesterday the Princess's Theatre potentate called upon me; but upon my telling
him that I should prefer transacting my arrangements with him in writing rather than vivâ voce,
he took himself off....

God bless you, dear. Give my dear love to Dorothy.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                18, ORCHARD STREET, December 11th, 1847.
  MY DEAR HAL,

I do not feel sure, from the tenor of your letter, that you do not wish to have my dog Hero
boarded at Jenny Wade's; if you do, he shall go there. You are a far better judge than I am
of the propriety of keeping a well-fed dog among your starving people. That they themselves
would do so, I can believe; for they are impulsive and improvident, and more alive to sentiments
of kindliness and generosity than to the dictates of common sense and prudence, or of principles
of justice. Hero has been used to luxury, both in his lodging and board; but human hearts have
to do without their food, and shall not his dog's body? I am fond of him, poor fellow, and
would fain have him kindly cared for.... I do not consider your parallel a just one--between
the bestowing of existence upon flies and the withholding immortality from a portion of the
human race, except, indeed, that both may be exercises of arbitrary will and power. It is perfectly
true that the clay has no right to say to the Potter, "Wherefore hast Thou fashioned me thus?"
or "Why am I a man, and not a beast?" But as regards the Creator's dealings with the human
race, inscrutable as His designs are to mortal intelligence, the moral nature of man demands
certain conditions in the conditions of his Maker, higher and better than his own; and the
idea of a partial immortality seems to me repugnant to the highest human conception (and we
have none other) of God's mercy and justice, and that simply because all men, no matter how
little advanced in the scale, appear to have some notion of a Divinity and a Deity of some
sort, to possess a germ of spiritual progress capable of development beyond the term and opportunities
afforded by this existence; and if, as I believe, the progressive nature belong to all, then
it seems to me a moral inconsistency to allow its accomplishment only to a few. If you say
that whole nations and races formerly and now, and innumerable individuals in our own Christian
communities, hardly achieve a single step in this onward career of moral development, I should
reply that the progress of the most advanced is but comparative, and far from great, and that
chiefly on this account the belief in a future existence appears rational, indeed the only
rational mode of accounting for our achieving so much and so little--our advancing so far and
no further here. The boon of mere physical existence is great, but if there were none greater,
we should not surely possess faculties which suggest that to make some of His moral and rational
children immortal, and others not, was not in accordance with the perfect goodness and justice
of our Father. This life, good as He pronounced it to be, and as it surely is, would not be
worth enjoying but for those nobler faculties that reach beyond it, and even here lay hold
of the infinite conception of another after death. To have given these capabilities partially,
or rather their fulfilment unequally, seems to me a discord in the divine harmony of that supreme
Government, the inscrutability of which does not prevent one seeing and believing, beyond sight,
that it is perfectly good. To have bestowed the idea of immortality upon some and not others
of his children, seems to me impossible in our Father; and since (no matter how faint in degree
or unworthy in kind) this idea appears to be recognized as universal among men, the fulfilment
of it only to some favored few seems still more incredible, since 'tis a yearning towards Him
felt by all His human creatures--a capacity, no matter how little or erroneously developed,
possessed by all.

Admitting God's absolute power over matter, there surely is a moral law which He cannot infringe,
for it is Himself; and though I do not know what He can do with the creatures He has made,
I know He cannot do Wrong; and if you tell me that my wrong may be His right, I can only reply
to that, He is my Right, the only true, real, absolute Right, of which I have any conception,
and that to propose that which seems to me wrong as an attribute or proceeding of His seems
to me nonsense....

Of course, a good beginning is an especially good thing in education; but I think we are apt
to place too much faith, upon the whole, in what we can do with children's minds and souls.
Perhaps it is well we should have this faith, or we might do less than we ought, whereas we
not unfrequently do a good deal that is without result that we can perceive; nevertheless,
the world goes on, and becomes by slow degrees wiser and better.... I met Macready while I
was riding to-day; and though I could not stop to say much to him, I told him that I particularly
wished to act with him. He has been told, I understand, that I have positively refused to do
so; and though his acquaintance with me is slight, I should feel grateful to him if he would
believe this, in spite of what representations to the contrary he might have heard. He said
that my honesty and truth were known to him, though he had had but little intercourse with
me, and that he entirely believed what I said. I was glad of this accidental opportunity of
saying this to him, as I would not have sought him for the especial purpose. Good-bye, my dear.

                              I am ever yours affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                BANNISTERS, SOUTHAMPTON, Thursday, 16th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

... Mrs. Fitzhugh does not appear to me in her usual vivacious state of mind, and I am afraid
I shall not contribute much to her enlivenment, being rather out of spirits myself, and, for
the first time in my life, finding Bannisters melancholy.... Walking up a small back street
from Southampton the other day, I saw a little child of about five years old standing at a
poor mean kind of pastry-cook's window, looking, with eyes of poignant longing, at some baked
apples, stale buns, etc. I stopped and asked him if he wished very much for some of those things.
He said yes, he wished very much for some baked apples for his poor little brother who was
sick. I wish you could have seen the little creature's face when I gave him money to buy what
he wanted, and he carried off his baked apples in his arms; that look of profound desire for
the sake of his brother, on the poor little childish face has haunted me. I went to see his
people, and found them poor and ill, in much distress; and the mother, looking at her youngest
child, a sickly, wasted, miserable little object, lamented bitterly that she did not belong
to such and such associations, for then, "if it should please God to take the child, she should
have five pounds to bury it" (I wonder if these wretches are never killed for the sake of their
burial money?); "but now she hadn't so much as would buy a decent rag of mourning"--a useless
solicitude, it seemed to me, who think mourning attire a superfluity in all classes.

I have had a letter from the Leamington manager, desiring me to act there, which I will do,
some time or other.

I have a riding-habit of my own, and need not hire one at Hastings; but I shall be glad to
hire a horse while I am with you, as, you know, I do not mind riding alone.... I feel intensely
stupid, which makes me think I must be ill (admire, I beg, the conceit of that inference),
as I have no other symptoms of indisposition. Farewell. Give my love to Dorothy.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                         BANNISTERS, SOUTHAMPTON, Friday, December 17th.

I have spoken with even more than my usual carelessness and inaccuracy upon the subject of
my readiness to comply with other people's wishes, but I seriously think one ought to comply
with a request of anybody's that was not an impertinent or improper one. I suppose everybody
is inclined to fulfil the wishes of persons they love.... But I am not given to the "small
attentions," les petits soins of affection, and therefore am always particularly glad to know
of any special desire of a friend's that I can comply with; a special wish, too, is a saving
of trouble, like the questions in your letters which are equivalent to wishes in another way,
and indicate the particular thing you want to know....

I have been out of spirits and much depressed during the first days of my stay at Bannisters,
but this gloom passing off, and I am resuming my more habitual buoyancy of temper....

                                               BANNISTERS, December 22d.

If you don't promise me good, I mean wholesome, food, when I come to St. Leonard's, I won't
stay with you a minute. I have, for some years past, considered that there was an important
deficiency in my human nature, which instead of consisting, like that of most people, of three
elements, is wanting in what I should call the middle link between its lowest and highest extremities.
Thus, for some time now, I have felt intimately convinced that I had senses and a soul, but
no heart; but I have now further come to the conclusion that I have neither sense, soul, nor
heart, and am, indeed, nothing but a stomach.... Now, don't retort upon me with starving populations,
in and out of poor-houses; and your grand national starving experiment in Ireland; neither
try to make me adopt it when I come to St. Leonard's, for I won't....

You will be glad to hear that poor old Mrs. Fitzhugh is better these two or three last days,
and, except for the weakness and irritation in her eyes, is tolerably well and comfortable;
and I, having recovered from the blue devils, am able to amuse her a little better than I did
when first I came. I am glad you mentioned that your comment on my health was meant for fun.
A man sat by me in Edinburgh at dinner one day, and asked me if I had ever read Adam Smith's
"Wealth of Nations," which frightened me into an indigestion; and when I told Mr. Combe of
it, he gave a sad Scotch laugh, like a postman's knock, "Ha! ha! just like Farquharson's dry
humor!"

You say that, as far as my own constitution is concerned, you believe my theories are right.
Pray, my dear, did I ever attempt to meddle with your constitution? Permit me to say that the
hygienic faith I profess has this in common with my other persuasions, that I am no propagandist,
and neither seek nor desire proselytes. No, my dear friend, it is the orthodox medicine-takers,
not the heterodox medicine-haters, who are always thrusting their pill-boxes and physic-bottles
into their friends' bodies, and dragging or driving their souls to heaven or hell. If my physical
doctrine saves my body, and my religious doctrine my soul, alive, it is all I ask of it; and
you, and all other of my fellow-creatures, I deliver over to your own devices, to dose, drug,
and "oh, fie!" yourselves and each other, according to your own convictions and consciences.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                      18, ORCHARD STREET, December 28th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I would rather have the "garret" looking towards the sea than the "bedroom" looking over houses,
provided I can have a fire in said garret; and pray, since I can have my choice of the two
rooms, may I inquire why the one that I do not occupy may not be appropriated to Hayes's use?
It seems to me that if there are two empty rooms for me to choose from, I may likewise hire
them both if I choose, and give one to my maid, and keep whichever I like best for myself.
Che ti pare, figlia mia? Have the goodness, if you can, to take both the vacant rooms for me,
and I will inhabit the garret, if, as I said before, it is susceptible of a fire.

I left Mrs. Fitzhugh a little more quiet and composed, in spite of her having just received
the news of Lord Harrowby's being at the point of death.... She has had much to try her in
the melancholy events at Sandon, and she persists in looking over a whole collection of old
letters, among which she found the other day a miniature of her boy, Henry, the sailor who
died, which she had forgotten that she possessed; and she comes down from this most trying
task of retrospection in a state of nerves so lamentable that no ingenuity of affection, or
utmost desire to cheer and relieve her, can suggest a sufficiently soothing process for that
purpose. She cannot be amused at all now by anything that does not excite her, and if she is,
over-excited she suffers cruelly from it. Thus, the reading of "Jane Eyre," which, while I
continued it, kept her in a state of extreme expectation and interest, appeared to me, upon
the whole, afterwards, to have affected her very unfavorably....

I will bring you Charles Greville's book about your most painful country, and some music....

Good-bye, dearest Hal. My affectionate love to dear Dorothy.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                     18, ORCHARD STREET.

... You ask me for my impression of Déjazet, and the piece I went to see her in; and here they
are. The piece in which she came out was called "Vert Vert." You remember, no doubt, Gresset's
poem about the poor parrot, so called; well, instead of a bird, they make this Vert Vert a
young boy of sixteen, brought up in a girls' convent, and taken out for a week, during which
he goes to Nevers, falls in with garrison officers, makes love to actresses, sups and gets
tipsy at the mess, and, in short, "gets ideas" of all sorts, with which he returns again to
his convent. If you can conceive this part, acted to the life by a woman, who moves with more
complete disinvoltura in her men's clothes than most men do, you may imagine something of the
personal exhibition at which we assisted. As for me, my eyes and mouth opened wider and wider,
not so much at the French actress, as at the well-born, well-bred English audience, who, women
as well as men, were in a perfect ecstasy of amusement and admiration. I certainly never saw
more admirable acting, but neither did I ever see such uncompromising personal exposure and
such perfect effrontery of demeanor. I do not think even ballet-dancers more indecent than
Mademoiselle Déjazet, for their revelations of their limbs and shapes are partial and momentary,
while hers were abiding and entire through the whole of her performance, which she acted in
tight-fitting knee-breeches and silk stockings; nor did I ever see such an unflinching representation
of unmitigated audacity of carriage, look, and manner, in any male or female, on or off the
stage....

She always wears men's clothes, and is seldom seen without a cigar in her mouth. She is extremely
witty, and famous for her powers of conversation and pungent repartees. She is plain, and has
a disagreeable harsh shrill voice in speaking; her figure is thin, but straight, and well made,
and her carriage and movements as graceful as they are free and unembarrassed; her singing
voice is sweet, and her singing charming, and her spirit and talent as an actress incomparable.
But if I had not seen it, I should not have believed that so impudent a performance would have
been tolerated here: tolerated it not only was, but applauded with enthusiasm; and Mademoiselle
Déjazet carries the town before her, being the least decent actress of the most indecent pieces
I ever saw.

Good-bye. Give my love to Dorothy.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [Offenbach's burlesque Operas were still in the future.]

                             29, KING STREET, ST. JAMES'S, January 14th.

I have not heard again from Bath, and so have answered your two questions, dearest Hal, and
will tell you what little I have to tell of my installation in my new lodging here.

I read the Times, studiously, all the way up to town, and was alone in my railroad carriage.
As soon as we reached King Street, I sent Hayes off to Orchard Street, to see for letters,
cards, etc. On entering my room (you will remember the upper front room, where we visited Lady
W---- together), I saw a beautiful white hyacinth, standing in the window, and knew directly
that Emily had sent it to me. I found, too, a most kind and affectionate letter from her....
Fanny Wilson and Mrs. Mitchell had called while I was away, and two gentlemen who had not left
their names--probably the Grevilles.... I don't like either my room or my furniture, I am sorry
to say; but I shall get attached to both in a couple of days.... At a little after four, Henry
Greville called and stayed some time, telling me as usual all manner of gossip--among other
things that his brother Charles was supposed to be the author of Jane Eyre! I wonder by whom?

Lord Ellesmere's gout is better, and they have been able to get him down to Hatchford--their
place near Weybridge. Henry Greville complained bitterly of Adelaide's not writing to him about
their new house in Eaton Place, which she wants him to get papered and prepared for them--a
job he is very willing to undertake, provided she will send him detailed and specific instructions,
which he is now waiting for in vain, and in great disgust at her laziness.... I worked at my
translation of "Mary Stuart" till bedtime.... It is impossible to say how much I miss you and
dear Dorothy, and how chilled to the marrow I felt when I had left the warm and kind atmosphere
of your affectionate companionship.... However, an additional oppressive sense of my loneliness
was the price I was sure to pay for my week's happy fellowship with you and Dorothy. And, after
all, it was worth the price.

I wrote this much yesterday, dear Hal; and yesterday is over, and has carried with it my cowardly
fit of despondency, and I am already back in the harness of my usual lonely life, and feel
the galling on the sore places of my spirit less; ... and every hour will bring occupation
and business (such as they are, as Hamlet very contemptuously observes), and I shall have something
to do--if not to think of....

I have heard from Norwich, and find I shall have less to prepare than I expected for two nights,
Friday and Saturday. I shall act at Yarmouth, and repeat what I play at Norwich.

Mrs. Jameson has taken rooms in this house, I find, and comes here to-night, and I shall be
very glad of some of her company.... Certainly London, much as I hate it, agrees better with
me than St. Leonard's; either the air or the water there are bad for me. I am much better than
when I was there....

God bless you. Kiss your Good Angel for me--how much I love and revere her, and how I rejoice
that you have such an inestimable friend and companion! I have been very happy with you, my
dear and good and kind friends.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                    29 KING STREET, ST. JAMES'S, Saturday, January 15th.

I dined at home yesterday, dear Hal, and spent the evening in reading "Vanity Fair." It is
extremely clever, but hitherto I do not like it very much. I began it at Bannisters last Winter,
and then I did not like it, wonderfully clever as I thought it. Lord Ellesmere says it is better
than anything of the kind (novels of manners and morals) since Fielding; but as far as I have
yet gone in it, it seems to me to have one very disagreeable quality--the most prominent people
in it are thorough worldlings, and though their selfishnesses, and meannesses, and dirtinesses,
and pettinesses, are admirably portrayed--to the very life, indeed--I do not much rejoice in
their company. It is only within the last year that I have been able to get through "Gil Blas,"
for the same reason; and though I did get through, I never got over the odiousness of the people
I lived with during the four volumes of his experiences of life.

Is not Shakespeare true to human nature? Why does he never disgust one with it? Why does one
feel comparatively clean in spirit after living with his creatures? Some of them are as bad
as real men and women ever were, but some of them are as good as real men and women ever are;
and one does not lose one's respect for one's kind while reading what he writes of it; and
his coarse utterances, the speech of his time, hurt one comparatively little in the midst of
his noble and sweet thoughts....

I am going with Henry Greville to Drury Lane to-night, and perhaps he will eat his dinner here.
He has a perfect mania for playhouses, and cannot keep out of them, and I would as lief spend
my evening in hearing pretty music as alone here....

I drove up and down Regent Street three times in vain to find your identical cutler, Mr. Kingsbury:
perhaps he has left off business, and some one else has taken his shop. So what shall I do
with your scissors? Do you think if I talk to them they will be sharpened?...

I have not heard again from Bath, and have seen nobody but Fanny Wilson, with whom I dine to-morrow,
and Mrs. Mitchell's two boys....

I shall get through my packing very well. Hayes is greatly improved, and really begins now
to be useful to me. Thus we most of us begin only just as we come to the end and leave off.

I was driving about all yesterday, doing commissions; to-day the sun shines, and I am going
to wade in the mud for my health.

God bless you. Kiss dear Dorothy for me.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                       NORWICH, Wednesday, January 20th.

I have found your cutler, Kingsbury; and very glad I was to find him, for I hate not being
able to execute a commission exactly as I am desired to do....

When I said that people never love others better than themselves, I did not mean more, but
in a better way than they love themselves. I mean that those who are conscientious in their
self-regard will be conscientious in their regard for others, and that it takes good people
to make good friends; and I do not consider this a "paradox of mine," as you uncivilly style
it. It is a conviction of mine, and I feel sure that you agree with it, whatever your first
impression of my meaning may have been when I said that people never loved others better than
themselves (i.e., with a better kind of love). I know that very unprincipled people are capable
of affection, and their affection partakes of their want of principle: people have committed
crimes for the sake of the love they bore their wives, mistresses (oftener), and children;
and half the meannesses, pettinesses, and selfishnesses of which society is full, have their
source in unprincipled affection as much as in unprincipled self-love.

I had already taken to my King Street lodging when I left it for this place. You know I have
a horror of new places and a facility in getting over it, which is a double disadvantage in
this wandering life of mine; for I am perpetually undergoing the process of feeling miserable
and lonely in a new place, and more miserable and lonely still when I leave it. The room I
have here is gloomy, but opens into my bedroom, which is comfortable, and I shall soon attain
the easy liking of habit for it.

Mrs. ----, dear Harriet, is without tact, and learns nothing, which is one reason why, in spite
of her many good qualities and accomplishments, I cannot get on with her. I breakfasted with
her on Sunday morning, and she abused A---- to me--not violently, of course, but very foolishly.
She is wanting in perception, and is perpetually committing sins of bad taste, which provoke
people--and me "much more than reason." I do not suppose I shall see enough of her to admit
of her "drying me up" (as the Italians say for boring), but I always find it difficult to get
on with her, even for a short time.

There is an element of ungenuineness about her, I believe quite involuntary; ... and it does
not so much consist in telling stories, though I believe she would do that on proper occasions,
like everybody else (but you, who never would know which were proper occasions), as in a crooked
or indirect moral vision, an incapacity for distinguishing what is straight from what is not,
which affects me very unpleasantly.

On Saturday evening I went to Drury Lane, with Henry and Charles Greville, the latter having
invited himself to join us. I spent a rather dolorous three hours hearing indifferent music,
indifferently sung, and admiring compassionately the mental condition of such a man as my friend
Henry, who must needs divert himself with such an entertainment, having, moreover, taste enough
to know what is really good, and yet persuading himself that this was not bad, only because
to him anything is better than spending an evening quietly alone at home.... On the other hand,
several things struck me a good deal. The music of the opera was poor, but it was not worse
than much of Donizetti's music, and it was composed by an Englishman. It was put together with
considerable skill and cleverness, but was far less agreeable than the poorest Italian music
of the same order; and it was well executed, by a good orchestra, chiefly composed of English
musicians. The principal singers were all English, and some of them had fine voices, and though
they seldom used them well, they did so occasionally; and, upon the whole, did not sing much
worse than Italian performers of the same class would have done. The choruses and concerted
pieces, also all given by English people, were well executed, though stupid and tiresome in
themselves; and certainly the progress our people have made in music in my time, to which the
whole opera testified, is very great. The audience was very numerous, and though the galleries
were crowded, and it is Christmas-time, and the after-piece was the pantomime, there was not
the slightest noise, or riot, or disturbance, even among "the gods," and the pieces in the
opera which were encored, were redemanded in the polite fashion of the Queen's Theatre, by
a prolonged, gentle clapping, without a single shout or shriek of "Hangcor!" or "Brayvo!" This
is a wonderful change within my recollection, for I remember when, during the run of a pantomime,
the galleries presented a scene of scandalous riot and confusion; bottles were handed about,
men sat in their shirt-sleeves, and the shouting, shrieking, bawling, squalling, and roaring
were such as to convert the performance of the first piece into mere dumb show.

All this is well, and testifies to an improved civilization, and not to a mere desire to ape
those above them in society; for that could hardly suffice to persuade these Drury Lane audiences
that they are amused by a tiresome piece tiresomely acted, and tedious musical strains, of
which they cannot carry away a single phrase, which sets nobody's foot tapping or head bobbing
with rhythmical sympathy, being all but devoid of melody.

I am very fond of music, but I would rather have sat out the poorest play than that imitation
opera; the scenery, dresses, decorations, etc., were all very good, and testified to the much
more cultivated taste of the times in all these matters.

On Sunday I dined with the Horace Wilsons, whom I had not seen for some time, and for whom
I have a very great regard, ... Returning home, I stopped at dear old Miss Cottin's.... I am
much attached to her, and think, next to my own dear Aunt Dall, she is one of the sweetest
and most unselfish creatures I have ever known, and love her accordingly....

I left London for this place on Monday morning, and having a sulky deliberate cab-driver, arrived
at the station just five minutes after the train had departed. This kept me waiting from 11.30
till 3.30, during which time Hayes, thinking I should be hungry, went out privately, and coming
back with a paper of biscuits, pointed out a raspberry tart at the bottom of it, and said,
"Here is a little tart I have got on purpose for you." Was not that courtly and kind of her?

I act here till Thursday. Friday and Saturday I act at Yarmouth; and I shall return to town
on Sunday, unless the Vice-Chancellor should allow the manager to open the Cambridge Theatre,
which is not generally allowed during term; if he should, I shall act there on Monday night,
and only return to town Tuesday morning.

I have promised Mrs. Grote to go down to the Beeches on Saturday, 29th, and shall only stay
there till Monday, 31st. This is all I know of myself at present, except that I am

                              Affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

  DEAR DOROTHY,

Here is my love with my pen and ink, which I flatter myself are as wretchedly bad as those
of any gentlewoman in the universe, and St. Leonard's.

You may be impertinent to Hal; she is only a bully, and will give in if you try: if you don't
like to try, as you are meek and lowly, I'll try for you, when I come down, if you'll give
me your power-of-attorney and instructions, without which I don't suppose I should know how
to be impertinent. Farewell, dearest Dorothy. I love you entirely for your own sake; I don't
like mixing up matters, and thank God for you, for Harriet's sake, as often as I think of you both.

                   BEGUN AT NORWICH, FINISHED AT YARMOUTH, Friday, 21st.

I do but poorly at Norwich, my dearest Hal, in body and estate, having a wretched influenza,
sore throat, sore chest, and cold in my head, through which I am obliged to stand bare-necked
and bare-armed, bare-headed and almost bare-footed (for the thin silk stockings and satin shoes
are a poor protection), on the stage, to houses, I am sorry to say, as thin as my stockings;
so that the money return for all this fatigue, discomfort, and expense is but inconsiderable,
i.e. by comparison, for undoubtedly it is a fair harvest for such grain as I sow.

My mind rather thrives upon this not too prosperous condition of my body and estate, inasmuch
as I naturally make some effort to be courageous and cheerful, and therefore do better in that
respect than when I was cheerful and needed no courage, while you were spoiling me at St. Leonard's
with all your love for me, and Dorothy with all her love for you.

In half an hour I leave this place for Yarmouth, where I act to-night and to-morrow. The manager
has made an arrangement with me to act at his theatres at Lynn and Cambridge next week, so
that instead of returning to London the day after to-morrow, I shall not do so until Friday,
28th....

We have dismal weather, snow on the ground, and blackness in the skies. My poor Hayes has got
the influenza too, and goes hacking and snivelling at my heels like an unpleasant echo. I shall
be thankful for both our sakes when our winter work is over, for the exposure is very great;
and though, of course, she has much less of it than I have, she bears it worse, catches colds
oftener, and keeps them longer than I do....

I should, I believe, find it very difficult indeed to be economical, and yet I suppose that
if I felt the duty and necessity of it I should be more so than I am. The saving of money without
any special motive for it does not appear to me desirable, any more than self-denial without
a sufficient motive--and I do not call mere mortification such--appears to me reasonable. I
do not feel called upon to curtail the comforts of my daily life, for in some respects it is
always miserable, and in many respects often inevitably very uncomfortable; and while I am
laboring to spare sacrifice and disgrace to others, I do not see any very strong motive for
not applying a sufficient portion of the money I work so hard for, to make my wandering and
homeless life as endurable as I can....

Your mode of living is without pretension, and without expenditure for mere appearances; and
I feel certain that appearances, and not the positive and necessary comforts of life, such
as sufficient firing and food, are the heaviest expenses of gentlefolks.... If the life is
more than meat or raiment, which I quite agree to, meat and raiment are more than platters
and trimmings; and it is the style that half the time necessitates the starvation....

Now I am at Yarmouth; though t'other side the page I was at Norwich. The earth is white, the
sea is black, the sky gray, and everything most melancholy. I act here to-night, and to-morrow
and on Sunday go on to Lynn, where I act Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday; and Thursday at Cambridge.
On Friday I go back to town, and on Saturday to Mrs. Grote's. I am in just such a little room
as those we used to pass in walking along the Parade at St. Leonard's--a small ground-floor
room, about sixteen feet square, the side facing the sea, one large bow-window in three compartments;
just such a gravel terrace before it as the one we walked up and down together; and the very
same sea, dark, neutral-tinted, with its frothing edge of white, as if it was foaming at the
mouth in a black convulsion, that your eyes look upon from your window. It is in some respects
exactly like St. Leonard's, and again as much the reverse as sad loneliness is to loving and
delightful companionship.

I have a sort of lost-child feeling whenever I go to a strange place, that very few people
who know me would give me credit for; but that's because they don't know me.

God bless you, dear. Kiss dear Dorothy for me.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                          YARMOUTH, 22d.

My very dear and most sententious friend, I never do run the time of my departure for railroad
trains "to the chances of free streets and fast-driving cabmen;" I always allow amply for all
accidents, as I have a greater horror of being hurried and jostled even than of being too late.
But my driver, the day I left town, was, I think, inexperienced as well as sulky. He was very
young, and though I was too ignorant of city localities to direct him positively, my recollection
of the route which I had traversed before seemed to me to indicate that he did not take the
most direct way.

You ask me what I think of E----'s note, and if it seems "wonderfully aristocratic" to me.
Aristocratic after the English fashion, which, thank God, is far from being a very genuine
fashion--their "airs" being for the most part adulterated by the good, sound, practical common
sense of the race, as their blood is polluted with the wholesome, vigorous, handsome, intelligent
vital fluid of the classes below them. No real aristocrat would have mentioned Miss ----'s
maiden name as if she was a woman of family--(née--geborne; that was a delightful German woman
who said she wasn't geborne at all)--for Miss ----, being only a banker's daughter, was, of
course "nobody."

The real aristocratic principle is not--I say again, thank God!--often to be found among us
islanders of Britain. In Austria, where the Countess Z---- and the Princess E---- are looked
upon as the earth under the feet of the Vienna nobility, the one being Lord S----'s daughter
and the other Lord J----'s, they have a better notion of the principle of the question. There
were only four families in all the British peerage who could have furnished their daughter
with the requisite number of quarterings for one of those Austrian alliances.

In folly, as in wisdom, a principle is at least consistent; but that the aristocratic pretensions
of our upper class can never be: for our gentry is of more ancient date in a great many instances,
and our nobles are, fortunately for themselves and us, a mixed race, admitting to the temporary
fellowship of social companionship and the permanent alliance of matrimony, wealth, influence,
beauty, and talent from every grade beneath them; therefore they are fit to endure, and will
endure longer than any other European aristocracy, in spite of Prince Puckler Muskau's epigram
against the most "mushroom of nobilities."

The "airs" they do give themselves are, therefore, very droll, whereas the similar pretensions
of an Austrian crème de la crème are comprehensible and consistent--folly without a flaw, and
rather admirable in its kind as a specimen of human absurdity.... I have the honor of being
slightly acquainted with E----'s portrait painter. He is a Scotch gentleman, of very great
merit as an artist. He was in Rome the winter I was there, and I met him in society, and saw
several of his pictures. He was rather injured artistically, I think, by living with mad lords
and silly ladies who used to pet and spoil him, which sort of thing damages our artists, who
become bitten with the "aristocratic" mania, and destroy themselves as fine workmen in their
desire to become fine gentlemen.

There was a story in Rome about Lady C---- and the German princess, Lady D----, going one day
to Mr. ----'s studio and finding his fire out, falling down on their own fair knees, and with
their own fair hands kindling it again for him. After this, how could he paint anything less
than a countess? Jesting apart, however, my dear Hal, the terms Mr. ---- asks are very high;
and though he is a very elegant and graceful portrait-painter, I would rather, upon the whole,
sit to Richmond, whose chalk drawings are the same price, and whose style is as good and more
vigorous.

You ask me why Mrs. ----, who is undoubtedly a clever woman, is also undoubtedly a silly one?

If I wished to be saucy, which I never do and never am, I should tell you, being an Irishwoman,
that it was because she was Irish, and, therefore, capable of a sort of intellectual bull;
but, unluckily, though ingenious, this is not true. The sort of ability or abilities, to which
we give the ill-defined name of "cleverness," is entirely distinct from common sense, judgment,
discretion; so distinct as to be almost their opposite. I think a clever woman requires quite
an unusual portion of the above qualities not to be silly, because she is clever. This may
sound paradoxical, but if you think it worth examining, you will find it true.

I am very cold and very comfortless in these horrible theatres, and shall be glad to get back
to King Street, and as soon as I am there will take measures about my readings, which I think
I had better begin in earnest with.

There are no rocks on the beach here, like that pretty little reef that runs right out before
your windows, but three miles from the shore there is a fatal stretch of sand where wrecks
are frequent, and all along which ominous white clouds are springing up from the inky surface
of the wintry sea, like warning ghosts. It is very dreary and dismal looking; but, nevertheless,
as I have no rehearsal, I am going out to walk. Kiss Dorothy for me. I am yours and hers most
affectionately,

                                                                  FANNY.

I have had another foolish note from Lady ---- about "Jane Eyre"--the universal theme of conversation
and correspondence--in which, speaking of herself, she says that she is "dished and done for,
and gone to the dogs;" and then accuses the writer of "Jane Eyre" of not knowing how ladies
and gentlemen talk--which I think, too; but the above expressions are a peculiar example of
refined conventional language, which perhaps the author of that very remarkable book would
have hesitated to ascribe to a lady--or a gentleman.

                            BIRNHAM BEECHES, Sunday, March 20th,
                            and KING STREET, Friday, February 1st, 1848.

Now I have two long letters of yours to answer, and my own opinion is that they will not be
answered until I get to the Beeches, and have a few hours' breathing-time, for I am just now
setting off for Cambridge, where I act to-night. To-morrow I travel to Bury St. Edmund's, and
act there the same night; and Friday I shall just get to London in time for my dinner, and
the next morning I go down to Birnham.... The air of St. Leonard's, though you call it cold
and sharp, was mild compared with the raw, sunless climate I have since enjoyed at Lynn and
Yarmouth; a bracing climate always suits me better than a relaxing one.... I cannot, however,
agree with you that there is more "excitement" in rehearsing every morning, and sitting in
a dull, dirty, hired room, and acting that everlasting "Hunchback" every evening, than in being
your mounted escort to Bex Hill and Fairlight church, and reading to you either "Mary Stuart"
or "Jane Eyre." I am glad to see that L---- and I agree about what always seems to me the most
improbable part of the latter very remarkable book. I am slow in determining in my own mind
the course that other women would pursue in exceptionally difficult circumstances; many of
them would doubtless display an amount of principle of which I should be quite incapable; and
so I am glad that L---- thinks, as I do, that Jane Eyre's safest course would have been to
have left Thornfield without meeting her lover's despair.

Fever at the gates of Ardgillan, my dear Hal, must indeed make you anxious; but as your family
have moved thence, I suppose they will not return while there is any danger to be apprehended
from doing so.

And now, dear Hal, from the Beeches, where I arrived yesterday afternoon, and am now writing
to you.... I have really kept both cold and cough down wonderfully, considering the horrible
weather and exposure I have gone through travelling, and in those damp barns of theatres. Hayes
will certainly not recover as soon as I do, for she has all the aversion of her class to physic
and spare diet....

Charles Greville is here, and I asked him your question, if he had ever published any other
book but the one upon Ireland you are reading. He said no. He has, however, written pamphlets
and newspaper articles of considerable ability upon political subjects. I have been taking
a long walk, and will now resume my letter to you. I perceive I have brought Charles Greville
and his book into the middle of what I was telling you about those poor young Norwich actors.

A very pretty and charming niece of my dear friend, Mr. Harness, is married and living within
a short distance of Lynn, and as I had not time to stay with her now, I have promised to go
back into Norfolk to visit her, and at the same time I have promised to act a night for these
poor people if they can get their manager's leave for me to do so.

My dear Hal, this letter seems destined to pass its unfinished existence on the railroads.
I am now at this present moment finishing it in my King Street lodging, to which I returned
yesterday afternoon, Mrs. Grote being seized in the morning with one of her attacks of neuralgia,
for which she is obliged to take such a quantity of morphine that she is generally in a state
of stupor for four and twenty to thirty hours. The other guests departed in the morning, and
I in the afternoon, after giving her medicine to her, and seeing her gradually grow stupid
under its effect. Poor woman, she is a wretched sufferer, and I think these attacks of acute
pain in her head answerable for some of the singularity of her demeanor and conversation, which
are sometimes all but unaccountably eccentric.

You ask me if I saw anything on that bitter cold journey, as I went along, to interest me.
You know I am extremely fond of the act of travelling: being carried through new country excites
one's curiosity and stimulates one's powers of observation very agreeably, even when nothing
especially beautiful or noteworthy presents itself in the landscape. I had never seen the east
counties of England before, and am glad to have become acquainted with their aspect, though
it is certainly not what is usually called picturesque. The country between Norwich and Yarmouth
is like the ugliest parts of Holland, swampy and barren; the fens of Lincolnshire flat and
uninteresting, though admirably drained, cultivated, and fertile. Ely Cathedral, of which I
only saw the outside, is magnificent, and the most perfect view of it is the one from the railroad,
as one comes from Lynn.

Lynn itself is a picturesque and curious old town, full of remains of ancient monastic buildings.
The railroad terminus is situated in a property formerly part of a Carthusian convent, and
the wheelwrights' and blacksmiths' and carpenters' cottages are built partly in the old monkish
cells, of which two low ranges remain round a space now covered with sleepers, and huge chains,
and iron rails, and all the modern materials of steam travel.

Cambridge, of course, I saw nothing of. On the road between it and Bury St. Edmund's one passes
over Newmarket heath, the aspect of which is striking, apart from its "associations." Bury
St. Edmund's--which is famous, as you know, for its beautiful old churches and relics of monastic
greatness--I saw nothing of, but was most kindly and hospitably sheltered by Mr. Donne, who,
being now the father of sons, is living in Bury in order to educate them at the school where
he and my brothers were as boys under Dr. Malkin. [William Bodham Donne, my brother John's
school and college mate, for more than fifty years of this changeful life the unchanged, dear,
and devoted friend of me and mine--accomplished scholar, elegant writer, man of exquisite and
refined taste, and such a gentleman that my sister always said he was the original of the hero
of Boccaccio's story of the "Falcon."]

God bless you, my dear. I have a pain in my chest, and bad cough, which don't prevent my being

                              Yours most truly,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          29, KING STREET, Thursday, 3d.

It is no longer the bitter cold morning on which you asked me how I was, and now I cannot for
the life of me remember how or where I was on that said 26th. Oh, it was last Wednesday, and
I was travelling from Lynn to Cambridge, and I was pretty well, and had a pleasant railroad
trip, the gentlemen in the railroad carriage with me being intelligent and agreeable men, and
one of them well acquainted with my brother John, and all his Cambridge contemporaries. Though
it was cold, too, the sun shone, and threw long streaks of brightness across the fens of Lincolnshire,
producing effects on the unfrequent and in themselves unpicturesque farm-houses, with their
groups of wintry skeleton-trees exactly like those in the Dutch pictures, which are, for the
most part, representations of just such landscapes.

Mitchell sent me yesterday a box at the French theatre for a morning performance of the "Antigone,"
with Mendelssohn's choruses. Previous to the performance of the Greek drama, they played, very
inappropriately it seems to me, his music of the "Midsummer Night's Dream," and the effect
of it upon my nerves was such that, though screened by the curtain of the box, and my sobs
drowned by the orchestra, I thought I should have been obliged to leave the theatre. It is
the first time that I have heard a note of Mendelssohn's music since his death.

How thankful I am I did not attempt that reading at the Palace! What should I have done there,
thus convulsed with pain and sorrow, in the midst of those strange people, and the courtly
conventions of their condition! Oh, what a bitter, bitter loss to the world, and all who loved
him, has been the death of that bright and amiable great genius!

The Greek play was given in the true Grecian fashion, and was interesting and curious as a
spectacle. The French literal translation of the grand old tragedy seemed at once stilted and
bald, and yet I perceived and felt through it the power of the ancient solemn Greek spell;
and though strange and puppet-like in its outward form, I was impressed by its stern and tragic
simplicity. It is, however, merely an archæological curiosity, chiefly interesting as a reproduction
of the times to which it belongs. To modern spectators, unless they are poets or antiquarians,
I should think it must be dull, and so I find it is considered, in spite of Mendelssohn's fine
music, which, indeed, is so well allied in spirit to the old tragedy, that to most listeners
I dare say it has something of the dreamy dreariness of the drama itself.

Mrs. Jameson was with me, and it was chiefly on her account that I did not give way to my impulse
to leave the theatre.

Good-bye. God bless you, my dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [The foregoing letter refers to my having declined to read the
    "Antigone" at Buckingham Palace, under the following circumstances.
    My father was desired to do so, but his very serious deafness made
    his reading anything to which there was an occasional accompaniment
    of music difficult to him, and he excused himself; at the same time,
    unfortunately for me, he suggested that I should be applied to to
    read the play. Accordingly, I received a message upon the subject,
    but was obliged to decline the honor of reading at the Palace, for
    reasons which had not occurred to my father when he answered for my
    accepting the task he had been unable to undertake. I had never yet
    read at all in public, and to make my first experiment of my powers
    before the queen, and under circumstances calculated to increase my
    natural nervousness and embarrassment, seemed hardly respectful to
    her, and almost impossible to me.

    Then, for my first attempt of the kind, to select a play accompanied
    by Mendelssohn's music, of which I had not heard one bar since the
    shock of his death, was to incur the almost certain risk of breaking
    down in an uncontrollable paroxysm of distress, and perhaps being
    unable to finish my performance.

    What I endured at the St. James's Theatre, on the occasion I have
    spoken of in this letter, confirms me in my conviction that I
    couldn't have attempted what was proposed to me with a reasonable
    chance of being able to fulfil my task.

    I was told afterwards that I had been guilty of "disloyal
    disobedience to a royal command,"--a severe sentence, which I do not
    think I had deserved, and found it painful to bear.]

                              KING STREET, Saturday, February 9th, 1848.

Mrs. Jameson is no longer in the house with me, dearest Hal. She went away the other day from
the theatre, where we were hearing Mendelssohn's "Antigone" together, and will probably not
return for some time; when she does, I shall most likely be out of town.

I saw Mitchell yesterday, and he entirely declines to have anything whatever to do with my
readings--ainsi me voilà bien! I cried like a baby the whole of the day afterwards; of course
my nerves were out of order, or I should have chosen some less rubbishy cause among the various
excellent reasons for tears I have to select from.

Mr. Harness and Charles and Henry Greville came to see me in the course of the day. The latter
rather bullied me, said I behaved like a child: and so I certainly did; but, oh, my dear Hal,
if you knew how little these, my most intimate friends, know about me, and how much more able
and fit they think me to fight and struggle for myself than I am! They are all very kind in
suggesting many things: Henry Greville is urgent with me to undertake the speculation of giving
readings at my own risk--hiring a room, and sending out advertisements, etc.; but this I will
not do, as I am willing' to work hard for very small gains, but not to jeopardize any portion
of the small gains for which I have worked hard. Am I right in your opinion and that of dear
Dorothy? In the mean time, I have written off to the Secretary of the Collegiate Institution
at Liverpool, who proposed to me last year to give readings there, and have told him that I
shall be glad to do so now if it still suits the purposes of the Institution. He, however,
may have changed his mind, as Mitchell has done, and in that case I must sit down and eat my
present savings, and thank God that I have savings for the present to eat....

Dear old Rogers came yesterday, and sat with me some time; and talking over my various difficulties
with me, said I had much better go and live with him, and take care of his house for him. It's
a pretty house, but I'm afraid it would be no sinecure to be his housekeeper....

How is your poor knees and wrists, and all your rheumatical fastenings and hinges, and Dorothy's
intérieur? I hope she is not tyrannizing over you with unnecessary questions and inquiries,
which merely serve to trammel your free-will, by asking you where you have been walking, or
if it rained while you were out.

I send you a kiss, which I beg you will give each other for me, or otherwise divide without
quarrelling, and believe me

                              Very affectionately yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                        29, KING STREET.

... Oh yes, my dear Hal, I hear abundance of discussion of the present distracted aspect of
public affairs, abroad and at home; but for the most part the opinions that I hear, and the
counsels that are suggested to meet the evils of the times, seem to me as much indications
of the faithlessness and folly of men, as the great movements of nations are of the faithfulness
and wisdom of God.

Still, when I hear clever, practical politicians talk, I always listen with keen interest;
for the details in which they seem to me too much absorbed, are a corrective to my generalizing
tendency on all such subjects.

Moral principles are the true political laws (mere abstract truisms, as they are held, and
accordingly overlooked, by working statesmen) by which the social world is kept in cohesion,
just as the physical world is kept in equilibrium by the attracting and repelling forces that
control its elements.

You ask me how many letters I am in your debt. When I shall have finished this, only one. I
have worked very hard this past week to keep your claims down, but have only just now got my
head above water with you.

There was nothing to like at Lynn. The weather was gloomy and cold, and I was only there two
days. There seemed to be a good many curious remains of antiquity in and about the town--old
churches, houses, gateways, and porches--but I had no leisure to look at these, and indeed
the weather was almost too severe to admit of standing about sight-seeing, even under the warmest
zeal for instruction.

I did not find the sea air make me sleep at Lynn, and incline to think that it is you, more
than the climate that affects me so soporifically at St. Leonard's.

God bless you, dear.

                              Your affectionate,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                           29, KING STREET, ST. JAMES'S.

I do not know how right I am in saying Lady ---- married because she was jilted, inasmuch as
of my own personal knowledge I do not know it; but that she was much attached to Lord ----,
whose father would not permit the marriage, I have heard repeatedly from people who knew both
the families; and Rogers, who was very intimate with hers, told me that he considered her marrying
as she did the result of mere disappointment, saying, "She could not have the man she loved,
so she gave herself to the man who loved her." So much in explanation of my rather rash statement
about that most beautiful lady I ever saw.

I have seen a good many handsome people, but there was a modesty, grace, and dignity, and an
expression of deep latent sentiment in that woman's countenance, that, combined with her straight
nymph-like figure, and the sort of chastity that characterized her whole person and appearance,
fulfilled my ideal of female beauty. You will perhaps wonder at my use of the word "chastity,"
as applied merely to a style of beauty; but "chaste" is the word that describes it properly.
Of all the Venuses of antique art, the Venus of Milo, that noble and keenly intellectual goddess
of beauty, is the only one that I admire.

The light, straight-limbed Artemis is lovelier to me than the round soft sleepy Aphrodite;
and it was to the character of her figure, and the contour of her head and face, that I applied
the expression "chaste" in speaking of Lady ----. Her sister, who is thought handsomer, and
is a lovely creature (and morally and mentally as worthy of that epithet as physically), has
not this severely sweet expression, or sweetly stern, if you prefer it, though this implies
a shade of volition, which falsifies the application of it. This is what I especially admire
in Lady ----, who adds to that faultless Greek outline, which in its integrity and justness
of proportion seems the type of truth, an eye whose color deepens, and a fine-textured cheek,
where the blood visibly mantles with the mere emotion of speaking and being listened to.

The first time I met her was at a dinner-party at Miss Berry's, before her marriage. She sat
by Landseer, and her great admiration for him, and enthusiastic devotion to his fine art, in
which she was herself a proficient, lent an interest to their conversation, which exhibited
itself in her beautiful face in a manner that I have never forgotten....

You bid me tell you how I am in mind, body, and estate. My mind is in a tolerably wholesome
frame, my body not so well, having a cold and cough hanging about it, and suffering a good
deal of pain the last few days. My estate is so far flourishing that I brought back a tolerable
wage and earnings from my eastern expedition, and so shall not have to sell out any of my small
funded property for my daily bread yet a while.

You say that tact is not necessarily insincerity. No, I suppose not: I must say I suppose,
because I have never known anybody, eminently gifted with tact, who appeared to me perfectly
sincere. I am told that the woman I have just been writing about, Lady C----, of whom my personal
knowledge is too slight to judge how far she deserves the report, never departs from the truth;
and yet is so gentle, good, and considerate, that she never wounds anybody's feelings. If this
is so, it deserves a higher title than tact, and appears to me a great attainment in the prime
grace of Christianity. I have always believed that where love--charity--abounded, truth might,
and could, and would abound without offence. Which of the great French divines said, "Quand
on n'est point dans les bornes de la charité, on n'est bientôt plus dans celles de la vérité"?
It sounds like Fénélon, but I believe it is Bossuet. Tact always appears to me a sort of moral
elegance, an accomplishment, rather than a virtue; dexterity, as it were, doing the work of
sensibility and benevolence.

I think it likely that Mitchell will call in the course of the morning, and I may still possibly
make some arrangement with him about my readings....

I have had a pressing invitation from Mrs. Mitchell, who is staying at Brighton with her boys,
to go down there and visit her. It would be very nice if I could go thence to 18, Marina, St.
Leonard's, and pay a visit to some other friends of mine. Your lodgings will, however, I fear,
be full; and then, too, you may not want me, and it is as well not to be too forward in offering
one's self to one's dearest friends, for fear of the French "Thank you," which with them, civil
folk that they are, means, "No, they'd rather not." With us, it would imply, "Yes, gratefully;"
otherwise, it is, "Thank you for nothing."

Kiss Dorothy for me.
                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                           29, KING STREET, Sunday, 5th.

I am afraid my pretty plot of coming to you is at an end, and I am afraid all my chances of
coming to you are at an end. I wrote you yesterday that I was beginning to be doubtful about
my further engagements in London, and was indeed discouraged and troubled at the aspect of
my affairs. This morning, however, comes an express from M----, beginning a new negotiation
with me, and wanting me to open with Macready at his theatre on the 21st of this month, to
act four weeks, and then renew the engagement for four weeks more.... I do not wish to depart
from the terms I have asked, but am extremely glad of the offer, and hope he will agree to
them. I think it probable that he will, because my engagement with Macready has been so much
talked about, and he has himself applied to me three several times about it. This puts an end
to all visiting prospects, for Brighton or St. Leonard's, and in March you will be leaving
the latter place. This is a sad disappointment, but perhaps Mr. M---- will not, after all,
give me my terms, and I ought to be sorrier for that, but I shan't....

I had a visit the other morning from Mr. Blackett--John Blackett. I don't know if I have spoken
of him to you. I met him at Mrs. Mitchell's in Scotland, while I was staying with her at Carolside,
and liked him very much. He is a great friend of Dr. Hampden's and of Stanley, Arnold's biographer.
He brought me, the other day, a volume of sermons by Stanley, of which I have just read the
first, and have been delighted with it. How surely does such a spirit as Arnold's beget its
own fit successors!... I think I have not read anything, since his own Life, that has given
me the same deep satisfaction that these sermons of his pupil have....

That music of Mendelssohn's had a horrid effect upon my nerves; I mean the emotion and distress
it caused me. I suffered a great deal of pain, and was quite unwell for several days after
it. Will it not be a pity if I can't come and be spoilt any more by you and Dorothy at St.
Leonard's? It was so pleasant and good for you.

                              Ever as ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                               KING STREET, Monday, 7th.

I do very, very well this morning, my dear Hal: this is in answer to your affectionate inquiry
of the 1st; but if you wanted to know then, of course you will want to know just as much now....

My time at the Beeches was not very pleasant to me. The weather was horrible, cold, wet, and
dismal; the house is wretchedly uncomfortable; and Mrs. Grote always keeps me in a rather nervous
state of breathless apprehension as to what she may say or do next. I cannot talk much, either
to her or Charles Greville; neither of them understands a word that I say. Her utter unusualness
perplexes me, and his ingrain worldliness provokes me; but I listened with great pleasure to
some political talk between Charles Greville, Mr. Grote, and the Italian patriot, Prandi. You
know that, fond as I am of talking, I like listening better, when I can hear what I think worth
listening to. I was delighted with their clear, practical, comprehensive, and liberal views
of the whole state of Europe, especially Italy, so interesting in her present half-roused attitude
of returning national vitality. They talked a great deal, too, upon the West India sugar question;
and I listened with interest to all they said, struck the whole time with their entirely ignoring
the deepest sources whence national troubles and their remedies flow, of which the wisest working
politicians and statesmen take apparently (very foolishly) little heed; I suppose they do not
acknowledge them, which is why their government and statescraft is so apt to be mere temporary
empirical expediency.

I had a very full and lively audience at Cambridge, and remarked with especial satisfaction
a young man sitting in the stage box with one of the sweetest countenances I ever saw. I sincerely
hope, for his beauty's sake, that he was amused. He reminded me of the line in King John, describing
the young gentlemen in the English army--the lads "with ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens."
They were very attentive, and very enthusiastic, and I was very well pleased with them, and
I hope they were with me....

There is nothing in the supernatural part of "Jane Eyre" that disturbs me at all; on the contrary,
I believe in it. I mean, there is nothing in my mode of thinking and feeling that denies the
possibility of such a circumstance as Jane Eyre hearing her distant lover call upon her name.
I have often thought that the power of intense love might very well work just such a miracle
as that. God bless you, dear. Kiss dearest Dorothy for me, and believe me

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                          29, KING STREET, Tuesday, 8th.

Yesterday I had plenty of questions to answer in my letter to you; to-day I have not one....
My beloved friend, I know that if your power to serve me equalled your desire to do so, I should
be borne in the arms of angels, "lest at any time I struck my foot against a stone." But do
not, my dearest Harriet, let your love for me forget that faith without which we could neither
bear our own trials nor the trials of those we love. "In the great hand of God we all stand,"
and are fitly cared for by Him, our Father. I should be much ashamed of the sudden flood of
cowardice that overwhelmed me two days ago at the difficult and cheerless prospect before me,
but that it was, I am sure, the result of nervous disorder, and the jarring I got the other
day from that dreadful Antigone.

You know I seldom waste time in blaming myself, and tarry but a brief space in the idle disconsolateness
of repentance. I must try to be less weak, and less troubled about my prospects. I wrote you
yesterday of the proposal I had received from Mr. Maddox. He made no offer of terms. I have
heard nothing further from him, and augur ill from his silence. I suppose he will not pay me
what I ask, and thinks it useless to offer me less. I shall be very sorry for this; but if
I find it so, will apply to Mr. Webster, or some other manager, for employment; and if I fail
with them, must make a desperate effort about my readings.

But for my sister's entreaty that I would remain here till she returns from Italy, and my own
great desire to see her again, I would confront the winter passage across the Atlantic, in
hopes of finding work in America, and living without using up the little I have already gathered
together. But I cannot bear to go before she comes to England.... I was surprised by a visit
from Lord Hardwicke yesterday; it is years since I have seen him. I knew and liked him formerly,
as Captain Yorke. He is as blunt and plain-spoken as ever, and retains his sailor-like manner
in spite of his earldom, which he hadn't when I met him last.... Henry Greville is coming to
tea with me this evening, and I promised to read him my translation of "Mary Stuart." I hope
he may like it as well as you did. Lady Dacre was here this afternoon; she has been dreadfully
ill, and looks an old woman now, for the first time, at eighty--that is not too soon to begin.

It is very odd that it should seem so natural to one to live, and so strange to die, since
it is what everybody does. The fact is, habit is the strongest thing in the world; and living
is simply the oldest habit we have, and so the strongest.

Good-bye, my dear, and believe me

                              Respectfully yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                               KING STREET, St. James's, Thursday, 10th.

... Mr. Maddox comes here, and worries my life out with haggling and bargaining, but has not
yet agreed to any terms, and I am half distracted with all the various advice tendered me....
In the mean time, I am much comforted about my readings; for I received yesterday morning a
very courteous letter from the Secretary of the Collegiate Institution at Liverpool, offering
me twenty guineas a night if I would go down and read there six nights at the end of March.
This I shall be thankful to do, if my engagement at the Princess's Theatre falls through, and
if it does not I shall hope to be able to accept the Liverpool invitation later in the season.
I have had a visit, too, from one of the directors of the Highgate Institute, to beg I would
go and read there. They cannot afford to give me more than ten guineas a night, the institute
being a small and not very rich one; but of course I do not expect to be paid for reading as
I am for acting, and therefore, whenever I can, shall accept the Highgate offer.

These various proposals have put me in heart once more about the possible success of this reading
experiment, and I am altogether much comforted at seeing that employment is not likely to fail
me, which I was beginning to fear it might.... Of course, if I apply for engagements to managers,
I must expect to take their terms, not to make my own--for beggars must not be choosers, as
I learnt long ago; and when I solicit an engagement, I must be prepared to sell myself cheap--and
I will. If Maddox won't pay me what I ask, and Webster won't have me at any price, I shall
come to you and Dorothy, who, I "reckon," will take me on my own terms: which in these my days
of professional humiliation (not personal humility, you know), is quite kind of you.

                              Yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                              KING STREET, Friday, 28th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

You will be glad to hear that Mr. Maddox has at length come into my terms.... For the next
two months this is some anxiety off my mind, and I trust will be off yours for me; and the
last two days have shown me that my chance of getting employment, either acting or reading,
is likely to last--at any rate till my sister returns, when I shall probably stay with her
till my departure for America.... I am most thankful that the depression and discouragement
under which I succumbed for a while has been thus speedily relieved. It is a curious sensation
to have a certain consciousness of power (which I have, though perhaps it is quite a mistaken
notion), and at the same time of absolute helplessness. It seems to me as if I had some sort
of strength, and yet I feel totally incapable of coping with the small difficulties of circumstance
under which it is oppressed; it's like a sort of wide-awake nightmare. I suppose it's because
I am a woman that I am so idiotic and incompetent to help myself.

But when one thinks of it, what a piteous page in the history of human experience is the baffling
and defeat of real genius by the mere weight of necessity, the bare exigencies of existence,
the need to live from day to day. Think of Beethoven dying, and saying to Hummel, with that
most wonderful assertion of his own great gifts, "Pourtant, Hummel, j'avois du génie!"--such
transcendent genius as it was too! such pure and perfect and high and deep inspiration! which
had, nevertheless, not defended him from the tyranny of poverty, and the petty cares of living,
all his life.

Is it not well that people of great genius are always proud as well as humble, and that the
consciousness of their own nobility spreads, as it were, the wings of an angel between them
and all the baseness and barrenness through which they are often compelled to wade up to the
lips? Whenever I think of Burns, my heart tightens itself, to use a French expression, for
a most painful physical emotion. Do you know Schiller's exquisite poem of the "Division of
the Earth"? I will send you a translation, if you do not--a rough one I made of it when it
was one of my German lessons. My version is harsh and poor enough, but the thoughts are preserved,
and the thought is worthy of that noble poet....

                                        29, KING STREET, Saturday, 12th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

How many pleasant things I might lament over if I might! I shall not see St. Leonard's again
with you. Emily has misunderstood in saying that my engagement at the Princess Theatre does
not begin till the 27th; it begins on the 21st, next Monday week, and I shall only just have
time to get my wardrobe ready and study Desdemona and Cordelia, which I am asked to play, and
re-learn the music of Ophelia, which I have quite forgotten....

I have an engagement offered me in Dublin, and it is rather provoking that I cannot accept
it now, for this, I believe, is the height of the gay season there. As it is, I fear I shall
not be able to go over there till May; but perhaps then you will go with me, or be there, and
that will be some compensation for the less money I shall make.

It's curious all these engagements offering now within these few days: to be sure, it never
rains but it pours, so that accounts for it philosophically.

Did I tell you what a nice long visit I had from Thackeray the other day? Oh, have you read
that "Vanity Fair" of his? It is wonderful! He was a schoolfellow of my brother John's, you
know, and is a very old friend of mine, but I had not seen him for some time. I wrote to ask
him for his autograph for Henry Greville, and he wrote me an extremely kind note, and came
himself after it, and sat with me a very long time, and was delightful.

Lady Charlotte Greville, who has just removed into a beautiful new house she has arranged for
herself, wrote to say she was coming to town immediately, and hoped I would give my first London
reading in her drawing-room. Was not that nice and kind and good-natured of her, dear old lady?
But of course I declined, at any rate for the present, as I mean to exhaust my natural enemies,
the managers, before I have recourse to my friends, in any way whatever. Kiss Dorothy for me,
and don't let her break your spirit with inquisitorial and vexatious supervision of your actions.
A timely resistance to friendly tyranny is a great saving of trouble.

Good-bye, you bad dear.

                              I am yours ever,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [I wish to record a slight anecdote of my friend William Thackeray,
    which illustrates his great kindness and amiability, his sweetness
    of temper and disposition.

    I met him at Miss Berry's at dinner, a few days before he began his
    course of lectures on the English essayists, and he asked me to come
    and hear him, and told me he was so nervous about it, that he was
    afraid he should break down.

    I had an engagement which prevented my hearing his first lecture,
    but I promised him to go and see him at his room before he began it,
    to cheer him.

    He was to lecture at Willis Rooms, in the same room where I read,
    and going thither before the time for his beginning, found him
    standing like a forlorn disconsolate giant in the middle of the
    room, gazing about him. "Oh, Lord," he exclaimed, as he shook hands
    with me, "I'm sick at my stomach with fright." I spoke some words of
    encouragement to him, and was going away, but he held my hand, like
    a scared child, crying, "Oh, don't leave me!" "But," said I,
    "Thackeray, you mustn't stand here. Your audience are beginning to
    come in," and I drew him from the middle of his chairs and benches,
    which were beginning to be occupied, into the retiring-room
    adjoining the lecture-room, my own readings having made me perfectly
    familiar with both. Here he began pacing up and down, literally
    wringing his hands in nervous distress. "Now," said I, "what shall
    I do? Shall I stay with you till you begin, or shall I go, and leave
    you alone to collect yourself?" "Oh," he said, "if I could only get
    at that confounded thing" (his lecture), "to have a last look at
    it!" "Where is it?" said I. "Oh, in the next room on the
    reading-desk." "Well," said I, "if you don't like to go in and get
    it, I'll fetch it for you." And remembering well the position of my
    reading-table, which had been close to the door of the
    retiring-room, I darted in, hoping to snatch the manuscript without
    attracting the attention of the audience, with which the room was
    already nearly full. I had been used to deliver my reading seated,
    at a very low table, but my friend Thackeray gave his lectures
    standing, and had had a reading-desk placed on the platform, adapted
    to his own very tall stature, so that when I came to get his
    manuscript it was almost above my head. Though rather disconcerted,
    I was determined not to go back without it, and so made a half jump,
    and a clutch at the book, when every leaf of it (they were not
    fastened together), came fluttering separately down about me. I
    hardly know what I did, but I think I must have gone nearly on
    all-fours, in my agony to gather up the scattered leaves, and
    retreating with them, held them out in dismay to poor Thackeray,
    crying, "Oh, look, look, what a dreadful thing I have done!" "My
    dear soul," said he, "you couldn't have done better for me. I have
    just a quarter of an hour to wait here, and it will take me about
    that to page this again, and it's the best thing in the world that
    could have happened." With which infinite kindness he comforted me,
    for I was all but crying, at having, as I thought, increased his
    distress and troubles. So I left him, to give the first of that
    brilliant course of literary historical essays with which he
    enchanted and instructed countless audiences in England and America.

    The last time I saw Thackeray, was at a dinner at my dear friend,
    Mr. Harness'. As we were about to seat ourselves at table, I being
    between Mr. Harness and Thackeray, his daughter Annie (now Mrs.
    Ritchie) was going to place herself on the other side of her father.
    "No, no," said our dear host, "that will not do. I cannot have the
    daughter next the father." And Miss Thackeray was invited to take
    another place. She had just published her story, "The History of
    Elizabeth," in which she showed herself to have inherited some of
    the fine elements of her father's literary genius. As we sat down, I
    said to him, "But it appears very evident, I think, that the
    daughter is to be next to the father." He looked at me for a
    moment with a beaming face, and then said, "Do you know, I have
    never read a word of that thing?" "Oh," cried I, "Thackeray! Why
    don't you? It is excellent! It would give you so much pleasure!" "My
    dear lady, I couldn't, I couldn't!" said he with tears in his eyes.
    "It would tear my guts out!"--which powerful English description
    of extreme emotion would have startled me less in French or Italian;
    "Cela m'arracherait les entrailles," or "mi sois-cerelbero."

    In the evening, he talked back to our early times, and my coming out
    at Covent Garden, and how, "We all of us," said he (and what a noble
    company of young brains and hearts they were!), "were in love with
    you, and had your portrait by Lawrence in our rooms"--which made me
    laugh and cry, and abuse him for tantalizing me with the ghost of a
    declaration at that late hour of both our days. And so we parted,
    and I never met him again. On his way home that evening, his
    daughter told me that he had spoken kind compassionate words of
    commendation of me. I have kept them in grateful remembrance. Fine
    genius! and tender gentle heart! the classic writer of the keenest
    and truest satire of the social vices of our day; the master of
    English style, as powerful and pure as that of the best models,
    whose works he has so admirably illustrated.

    "Vanity Fair" will, I suppose, be always considered Thackeray's
    masterpiece--though everybody loves, beyond all his other portraits,
    the exquisite one of Colonel Newcome--but it seems to me that
    "Esmond" is a more extraordinary literary feat than any other of his
    works--except, indeed, "Lyndon of Barry Lyndon," which is even a
    more remarkable production of the same order.]

  KING STREET, Monday, 14th.

If you begin your letter with such questions as "What do you think of me?" I do not know any
reason in life why my answer should ever have an end, even within the liberal limits of the
two pages which you extort from me daily. That is a question I cannot answer; although, I must
say, I should have expected from you rather more of that constancy and consistency (a male
rather than a female quality, however), which, having determined on a certain course as best,
does not lament having abided by it when the issue appears unprosperous. I think women are
seldom of a sufficiently determined mind to make their opinion or resolution itself their consolation
under defeat. They are more liable to mental as well as moral misgivings and regrets than men,
and an unfortunate result easily induces them to repent a course they deliberately adopted.

Sole vales Veritas is the motto upon a little pencil-case contained in the small work-case
Emily has given me. She had it engraved on the seal, and though it is not altogether so congenial
a motto to me as Arnold and Robertson's Christian device "Forward!" (and is moreover axiomatic
rather than hortatory), I use it partly for her sake, and partly because it is undeniable.

Pilate wished to know what is truth--or rather pretended that he did--and I have a very general
conviction that "What is truth?" is the speech of Pilate to this day; i.e., of those who know,
but will not do, what they know to be right. It is very seldom, indeed, that the mind earnestly
desires a conviction, strives for one, prays for one, and labors to attain one, that it does
not acquire what, to all intents and purposes, is truth for that individual soul.

God's perfect and absolute Truth remedies in a thousand ways the defectiveness of the partial
truth that we arrive at; and so that the endeavor after truth be true, the highest result of
all is reached, truth towards God, though, humanly speaking, the mental result may be a failure.
What absolute truth is, my dearest Hal, you will certainly not know before you die, and possibly
not then. In the mean time, I take it, you have, or may have if you will, that which will serve
your turn. At any rate, I have--which is not at all the same thing--but that don't signify.

I am very glad I was welcome in Bedford Place, and that Miss ---- was good enough to be pleased
with me.

There is great goodness in her voice and manner, and to have kept her face unwrinkled and her
hair unblanched till the present age (as it is no result of selfish insensibility in her),
bespeaks a virtuous life, and sweet serene temper.

I wonder more women to whom their good looks are precious, do not ponder upon the beauty of
holiness.... I have not heard from Adelaide or E---- for some time, but of them, that they
and the children are well; that she is in good looks, and admirable voice; that their house
is the pleasantest in Rome, and their parties the thing to which everybody is anxious to be
admitted: so all is prosperous and pleasant with them. I have told you of her nice new house
in Eaton Place. It is in a considerable state of forwardness, the bedrooms being all papered,
and the drawing-rooms nearly painted. Henry Greville has had it all done for her, and in very
good taste; the grates are all up, and I should think in another fortnight they might take
possession if they were here.

I have read more of Stanley's sermons, and am struck with their resemblance, in tone and spirit,
to that book of my friend Mr. Furness, which I do not know if I ever gave you to read, called,
"Jesus and His Biographers."

Stanley's sermons are excellent, but they seem to me curiously unorthodox. There is an inletting
of new views upon the subject of the Christian Revelation, against which the Protestantism
of the Church of England--in many respects illogical and anomalous, as it appears to its opponents--will
have to fight a hard and difficult battle.

Lady Ellesmere was absolutely in despair about the bill for admitting the Jews to Parliament,
and had influence enough with Lord Ellesmere to make him vote against it. This is sad enough;
but she is so excellent that her influence over him, in one case where it is bad is good in
a great many others....

God bless you, my dear. Give my love to Dorothy: I am both yours, but yours most particularly,

                                                                  FANNY.

P.S. My course with regard to my engagement at the Princess Theatre was determined by my father's
opinion, and confirmed by the advice of all my friends who spoke to me upon the subject--Emily,
Harness, the Grevilles, and others; and all that Mr. Maddox said in his various conversations
with me upon the subject, enabled the best experienced among us to form a very fair idea of
what he could afford to give, and what I was justified in asking.

                            29, KING STREET, Friday, February 18th, 1848.

I have been this morning to a rehearsal of Macbeth, at which Macready did not attend; so that
in point of fact, as far as I was concerned, it was nil. He is, I believe, finishing some country
engagements, and I suppose had not returned to town. I have another rehearsal to-morrow, at
which it is to be hoped he will attend, as otherwise my being there is really quite a work
of supererogation.

My men friends--among whom I include my father--one and all, did what I think women would not
have done. The minute Mr. Maddox agreed to the terms I had demanded, they lamented bitterly
(even my dear Mr. Harness--who is a good man) that I had not stood out for higher ones, feeling
quite sure I should have got them. Now, this I think quite as contemptible, and a great deal
more dishonest, than the womanly process (Emily's and yours) of lamenting that I had not taken
less than I had demanded, because you feared my doing so had broken off the negotiation altogether.
I think, upon the whole, it behooves people to know what they mean, and to abide by it, without
either weak regrets at an ill result, or selfish ones that it is not better than what one had
made up one's mind to--when it seems that it might have been so. I do wish people would learn
to be like my aunt's cook, and "stand upon their own bottom, with fortitude and similarity."
(A woman that Mrs. Siddons was engaging as cook, replied to the question, "Can you make pastry?"
"Well, no, ma'am--not exactly to say, the very finest of pastry. I can make plain puddings
and pies, but--I am not a professed puff pastry cook, and I think it best to say so, as every
one should stand upon their own bottom, with fortitude and similarity, I think.")

I act Lady Macbeth on Monday, on Wednesday Queen Katharine, and on Friday Desdemona, for the
first time in my life. I have a beautiful and correct dress for her (you know I always liked
my clothes), for which, nevertheless, I expect to be much exclaimed against, as our actresses
have always thought proper to dress her in white satin. I have arrayed her in black (the only
habit of the noble Venetian ladies) and gold, in a dress that looks like one of Titian's pictures.

That smothering scene, my dear Harriet, is most extremely horrible, and like nothing in the
world but the catastrophe of poor Madame de Praslin. I think I shall make a desperate fight
of it, for I feel horribly at the idea of being murdered in my bed. The Desdemonas that I have
seen, on the English stage, have always appeared to me to acquiesce with wonderful equanimity
in their assassination. On the Italian stage they run for their lives round their bedroom,
Pasta in the opera (and Salvini in the tragedy, I believe), clutching them finally by the hair
of the head, and then murdering them. The bedgown in which I had arrayed Desdemona for the
night would hardly have admitted of this flight round the stage; besides that, Shakespeare's
text gives no hint of any such attempted escape on poor Desdemona's part; but I did think I
should like not to be murdered, and therefore, at the last, got up on my knees on my bed, and
threw my arms tight round Othello's neck (having previously warned Mr. Macready, and begged
his pardon for the liberty), that being my notion of the poor creature's last appeal for mercy.

What do you think of our fine ladies amusing themselves with giving parties, at which they,
and their guests, take chloroform as a pastime? Lady Castlereagh set the example, and was describing
to me her sensations under the process. I told her how imprudent and wrong I thought such experiments,
and mentioned to her the lecture Brand gave upon the subject, in which the poor little guinea-pig,
who underwent his illustrations for the benefit of the audience, died on the table during the
lecture; to which she replied, "Oh yes; that she knew that, for she was present." Can you conceive,
after such a spectacle, trying similar experiments upon one's ignorant self? Is it not very
brave? or is it only idiotical?...

I have been making a desperate struggle, giving my reasons (four pages of them--think of it!)
to the committee of the Liverpool Institution, to induce them to let me read Shakespeare straight
through to them; at least, each play I read, divided into two readings, and with only the omissions
required by modern manners: but I fear they will not let me. I shall be grievously disappointed....

Was there ever such a to-do as that woman Lola Montez is kicking up? Everybody is turning Catholic
as fast as possible, and the good Churchwomen are every way in despair. They already see their
sons all circumcised, and their daughters refusing to eat ham, and their brothers and husbands
confessing the Real Presence. The lady members of the Established Church, especially the more
serious ones, are in great tribulation at all that is going on. Lady Ellesmere is desperate
at the Jews coming into Parliament, and Lord Ellesmere has voted against them. He, poor man,
has been, within the last few days, all but at death's door with the gout, and perhaps near
finding out how different, or indifferent, these differences really are. It is wonderful to
hear everybody talk.

Good-bye. I am yours and Dorothy's

                              Most respectfully,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [My first intention in undertaking my readings from Shakespeare was
    to make, as far as possible, of each play a thorough study in its
    entireness; such as a stage representation cannot, for obvious
    reasons, be. The dramatic effect, which of course suffers in the
    mere delivery from a reading-desk, would, I hoped, be in some
    measure compensated for by the possibility of retaining the whole
    beauty of the plays as poetical compositions. I very soon, however,
    found my project of making my readings "studies of Shakespeare" for
    the public quite illusory.

    To do so would have required that I should take two, and sometimes
    three, evenings to the delivery of one play; a circumstance which
    would have rendered it necessary for the same audience, if they
    wished to hear it, to attend two and three consecutive readings; and
    in many other respects I found the plan quite incompatible with the
    demand of the public, which was for a dramatic entertainment, and
    not for a course of literary instruction.

    My father had found it expedient, in this mode of illustrating
    Shakespeare, to make one play the subject of each reading; taking
    two hours for the performance, and dividing the piece as fairly as
    possible in two parts; retaining the whole story of the play, and
    so much only of the wisdom and beauty bestowed on its development by
    the author, as could be kept well within the two hours' delivery,
    and make the reading resemble as nearly as possible, in dramatic
    effect, the already garbled and coarsely mutilated stage plays the
    general public are alone familiar with. I was grievously
    disappointed, but could not help myself. In Germany I should have
    had no such difficulty; but the German public is willing to take its
    amusements in earnest.

    The readings were to be my livelihood, and I had to adapt them to
    the audiences who paid for them--

    "For those who live to please, must please to live."

    I gladly availed myself of my father's reading version of the
    plays, and read those he had delivered, cut and prepared for the
    purpose according to that. When I came to cut and prepare for
    reading the much greater number which I read, and he did not, I
    found the task a very difficult one; and was struck with the
    judgment and taste with which my father had performed it. I do not
    think it possible to have adapted these compositions better or more
    successfully to the purposes for which he required them. But I was
    determined, at least, not to limit my repertory to the few most
    theatrically popular of Shakespeare's dramas, but to include in my
    course all Shakespeare's plays that it was possible to read with
    any hope of attracting or interesting an audience. My father had
    limited his range to a few of the most frequently acted plays. I
    delivered the following twenty-four: King Lear, Macbeth, Cymbeline,
    King John, Richard II., two parts of Henry IV., Henry V., Richard
    III., Henry VIII., Coriolanus, Julius Cæsar, Anthony and Cleopatra,
    Hamlet, Othello, Romeo and Juliet, The Merchant of Venice, The
    Winter's Tale, Measure for Measure, Much Ado about Nothing, As You
    Like It, Midsummer Night's Dream, Merry Wives of Windsor, and The
    Tempest.

    These plays I read invariably through once before repeating any of
    them; partly to make such of them as are seldom or never acted,
    familiar to the public, by delivering them alternately with those
    better known; and partly to avoid, what I much dreaded, becoming
    mechanical or hackneyed myself in their delivery by perpetual
    repetition of the same pieces, and so losing any portion of the
    inspiration of my text by constant iteration of those garbled
    versions of it, from which so much of its nobler and finer elements
    are of hard necessity omitted in such a process as my reading of
    them. I persisted in this system for my own "soul's sake," and not
    to debase my work more than was inevitable, to the very considerable
    detriment of my gains.

    The public always came in goodly numbers to hear "Macbeth,"
    "Hamlet," "Romeo and Juliet," and "The Merchant of Venice;" and
    Mendelssohn's exquisite music, made an accompaniment to the reading
    of the "Midsummer Night's Dream," rendered that a peculiarly popular
    performance. But to all the other plays the audiences were
    considerably less numerous, and to some few of them I often had but
    few listeners. Mr. Mitchell, who for a considerable length of time
    farmed my readings, protested bitterly against this system, which
    involved, of course, less profits than he might have made by
    repeating only the most popular plays; and my own agents, when I was
    reading on my own account, did not fail to represent to me that I
    was what they called sacrificing my interests, i.e. my receipts,
    to this plan of operations; but man does not live by bread alone,
    and for more than twenty years that I followed the trade of a
    wandering rhapsodist, I never consciously sacrificed my sense of
    what was due to my work, for the sake of what I could make by it. I
    have wished, and hoped, and prayed, that I might be able to use my
    small gift dutifully; and to my own profound feeling of the
    virtue of these noble works, have owed whatever power I found to
    interpret them. My great reward has been, passing a large portion of
    my life in familiar intercourse with that greatest and best English
    mind and heart, and living almost daily in that world above the
    world, into which he lifted me. One inspiration alone could have
    been purer or higher; and to that, my earthly master's work, done as
    well as it was in me to do it, often helped, and from it, never
    hindered me.]

                               29, KING STREET, Saturday, February 19th.

Imprimis, will you and Dorothy fasten your dinner-napkins with these things, or rings, which
I have made for you? for my imagination is sick with the memory of those bits of strings you
use. I have made these too short, and so have been obliged to put strings to them, having originally
intended them to be complete rounds; but my needle performances are always ill-managed and
untidy, and as such I commend these to your indulgent acceptance. I wrought at them those bitter
evenings that I spent in those barns of theatres in Norfolk, where the occupation contributed
to entertain the warmth of my heart, which was all the heat I had to keep me alive....

I must tell you rather a droll observation of the worthy Hayes. When I explained to her that
I had made those worsted bands to fasten your dinner-napkins, for which you had nothing but
strings, she said, "Dear me! I wonder at that! And Miss S---- seemed so fond of clever, curious
contrivances, for everything." I screamed with delight when she said that, for hadn't I cursed
that "curious contrivance" of an inkstand you gave me (Dorothy cursed hers too, no doubt, after
her own blessed fashion)? and didn't I curse that execrable "curious contrivance" of a taper
you gave me at St. Leonard's, with which I was so enchanted before I used it, and which wasted
me by its own small fire every time I did use it, and for the final burning out of which I
was so thankful? But are not Hayes's comments on your character comical?

I am sorry to say I have not the same dressing-room I had before at the Princess's Theatre.
Mr. Macready is quite too great a man to give it up to anybody, and my attiring apartment now
is up a steep flight of stairs, which is a great discomfort to me on several grounds, for I
fear the call-boy will hardly come so far out of his way to summon me, and I shall have to
sit in the greenroom, which, however, I won't, if I can by any means avoid it; but the proximity
of the other room to the stage, and its being on the same level with it, was a great advantage.

I am going to dine with Lady Grey (the Countess, widow of the Lord Grey), and after that to
the opera with Henry Greville and Alfred Potocki, who have a box, and have given me a ticket,
which I am very glad of.

I had a three hours' rehearsal this morning, and Macready was there. As far as I could judge,
he was less unfair in his mode of acting than I had been led to expect. To be sure, at night,
he may stand two yards behind me while I am speaking to him, as I am told he often does. He
is not courteous or pleasant, or even well-bred; remains seated while one is standing talking
to him; and a discussion having arisen as to the situation of a table, which he wished on the
stage, and I wished removed, he exhibited considerable irritability and ill-humor.

He is unnecessarily violent in acting, which I had always heard, and congratulated myself that
in Lady Macbeth, I could not possibly suffer from this; but was much astonished and dismayed
when at the exclamation, "Bring forth men-children only," he seized me ferociously by the wrist,
and compelled me to make a demivolte, or pirouette, such as I think that lady did surely never
perform before, under the influence of her husband's admiration.

God bless you, dear,

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [I have always had a cordial esteem and respect for Mr. Macready's
    character, which has been increased by reading the record he has
    himself left of his life. Of his merits as an actor, I had not a
    very high opinion, though in one or two parts he was excellent, and
    in the majority of the tragical ones he assumed, better than his
    contemporaries, my father, Charles Young, and Charles Kean. He was
    disqualified for sentimental tragedy by his appearance, and he was
    without comic power of any kind. Parts of his Macbeth, Lear,
    Othello, and King John, were powerful and striking, but his want of
    musical ear made his delivery of Shakespeare's blank-verse
    defective, and painful to persons better endowed in that respect. It
    may have been his consciousness of his imperfect declamation of
    blank-verse that induced him to adopt what his admirers called the
    natural style of speaking it; which was simply chopping it up into
    prose--a method easily followed by speakers who have never learned
    the difference between the two, and that blank-verse demands the
    same care and method that music does, and when not uttered with due
    regard to its artificial construction, and rules of rhythm and
    measure, is precisely as faulty as music sung out of time.

    The school of "natural speaking" reached its climax, I presume, in
    the performance of a charming young actress, of whose delivery of
    the poetry of Portia it was said in high commendation, by her
    admirers, that she gave the blank verse so naturally that it was
    impossible to tell that it was not prose. What she did with
    Shakespeare's prose in the part these judicious critics did not
    mention.

    Mr. Macready's eye was as sensitive and cultivated as his ear was
    the reverse. He had a painter's feeling for color and grouping and
    scenic effect; was always picturesque in his appearance, dress,
    attitudes, and movements; and all the pieces that were put upon the
    stage under his supervision were admirable for the appropriate
    harmony of the scenery, decorations, dresses, and whole effect; they
    were carefully accurate, and extremely beautiful. "Acis and
    Galatea," as produced under his direction, was one of the most
    exquisite dramatic spectacles I ever saw, in spite of the despair to
    which he reduced the chorus and ballet nymphs by rigorously
    forbidding all padding, bustle, crinoline, or other artificial
    adjunct to their natural graces, in the severely simple classical
    costume of the Greek mythological opera.

    Mr. Macready's great parts were Virginius, in Knowles's play of
    that name; Werner, in Lord Byron's romantic drama; and Rob Roy, in
    the melodrama taken from Scott's novel. These were original
    performances, in which nobody has surpassed or equalled him; genuine
    artistic creations, which, more than his rendering of Shakespeare's
    characters, entitled him to his reputation as a great actor.

    He was unpopular in the profession, his temper was irritable, and
    his want of consideration for the persons working with him strange
    in a man of so many fine qualities. His artistic vanity and
    selfishness were unworthy of a gentleman, and rendered him an object
    of dislike and dread to those who were compelled to encounter them.

    He was quite aware of this himself, for once, when he came to see
    me, while the negotiation was pending about my engagement to act
    with him, he alluded to his own unpopularity, said he was sure I had
    heard all sorts of disagreeable stories about him, but assured me,
    laughing, that "the devil was not nearly so black as he was
    painted."

    It was quite impossible for me to tell Mr. Macready that I had heard
    he was pleasant to act with, remembering, as I did while he spoke
    to me, the various accounts I had received of actors whose eyes had
    been all but thrust out by his furious fighting in Macbeth; of
    others nearly throttled in his paternal vengeance on Appius
    Claudius; of actresses whose arms had been almost wrenched out of
    their sockets, and who had been bruised black and blue, buffeted
    alike by his rage and his tenderness. One special story I thought
    of, and was dying to tell him, of one pretty and spirited young
    woman, who had said, "I am told Mr. Macready, in such a part, gets
    hold of one's head, and holds it in chancery under his arm, while he
    speaks a long speech, at the end of which he releases one, more dead
    than alive, from his embrace; but I shall put so many pins in my
    hair, and stick them in in such a fashion, that if he takes me by
    the head, he will have to let me instantly go again."

    My personal experience of Macready's stage temper was not so bad as
    this, though he began by an act of unwarrantable selfishness in our
    performance of "Macbeth."

    From time immemorial, the banquet scene in "Macbeth" has been
    arranged after one invariable fashion: the royal dais and throne,
    with the steps leading up to it, holds the middle of the stage,
    sufficiently far back to allow of two long tables, at which the
    guests are seated on each side, in front of it, leaving between them
    ample space for Macbeth's scene with Banquo's ghost, and Lady
    Macbeth's repeated rapid descents from the dais and return to it, in
    her vehement expostulations with him, and her courteous invitations
    to the occupants of both the tables to "feed, and regard him not."
    Accustomed to this arrangement of the stage, which I never saw
    different anywhere in all my life for this scene, I was much
    astonished and annoyed to find, at my first rehearsal, a long
    banqueting-table set immediately at the foot of the steps in front
    of the dais, which rendered all but impossible my rapid rushing down
    to the front of the stage, in my terrified and indignant appeals to
    Macbeth, and my sweeping back to my place, addressing on my way my
    compliments to the tables on either side. It was as much as I could
    do to pass between the bottom of the throne steps and the end of the
    transverse table in front of them; my train was in danger of
    catching its legs and my legs, and throwing it down and me down, and
    the whole thing was absolutely ruinous to the proper performance of
    my share of the scene. If such a table had been in any such place in
    Glamis Castle on that occasion, when Macbeth was seized with his
    remorseful frenzies, his wife would have jumped over or overturned
    it to get at him.

    All my remonstrances, however, were in vain. Mr. Macready persisted
    in his determination to have the stage arranged solely with
    reference to himself, and I was obliged to satisfy myself with a
    woman's vengeance, a snappish speech, by at last saying that, since
    it was evident Mr. Macready's Macbeth depended upon where a table
    stood, I must contrive that my Lady Macbeth should not do so. But in
    that scene it undoubtedly did.

    As I had been prepared for this sort of thing in Macready, it didn't
    surprise me; but what did was a conversation I had with him about
    "Othello," when he expressed his astonishment at my being willing to
    play Desdemona; "For," said he, "there is absolutely nothing to be
    done with it, nothing: nobody can produce any effect in it; and
    really, Emilia's last scene can be made a great deal more of. I
    could understand your playing that, but not Desdemona, out of which
    nothing really can be made." "But," said I, "Mr. Macready, it is
    Shakespeare, and no character of Shakespeare's is beneath my
    acceptance. I would play Maria in 'Twelfth Night' to-morrow, if I
    were asked to do so." Whereupon he shrugged his shoulders, and
    muttered something about "all that being very fine, no doubt," but
    evidently didn't believe me; and as I should have given him credit
    for my own feeling with regard to any character in Shakespeare's
    plays, I was as much surprised at his thinking I should refuse to
    act any one of them as I was at his coarse and merely technical
    acting estimate of that exquisite Desdemona, of which, according to
    him, "nothing could be made;" i.e., no violent stage effect could
    be produced. Is not Shakespeare's refusing to let Desdemona sully
    her lips with the coarse epithet of reproach with which her husband
    brands her, and which no lady in England of his day would have
    hesitated a moment to use, a wonderful touch of delicacy?

    Macready certainly was aware of the feeling of his fellow-actors
    about his violence and want of personal self-control on the stage;
    for as he stood at the side scene by me, in the last act of "King
    Lear," ready to rush on with me, his Cordelia, dead in his arms, he
    made various prefatory and preparatory excuses to me, deprecating
    beforehand my annoyance at being dragged and pulled about after his
    usual fashion, saying that necessarily the scene was a disagreeable
    one for the "poor corpse." I had no very agreeable anticipation of
    it myself, and therefore could only answer, "Some one must play it
    with you, Mr. Macready, and I feel sure that you will make it as
    little distressing to me as you can;" which I really believe he
    intended to do, and thought he did.]

I have received this morning from Liverpool, in answer to my letter about my readings, a very
earnest request that I would give lectures upon Shakespeare. This I have declined doing, not
having either the requisite knowledge or ability nor the necessary time properly to prepare
a careful analysis of the smallest portion of such over-brimming subjects as those plays. I
should like to study again Hazlitt's and Coleridge's comments upon Shakespeare; the former
I used to think excellent.

Mrs. Grote herself wrote those stanzas upon Mendelssohn which you saw in the Spectator. She
urged me vehemently, while I was with her at the Beeches, to do something of the kind; but
I could not. She then showed me her verses, which please me better now than they did then;
for then the painful association of his former existence in that place, and the excitement
of his beautiful music, which she plays extremely well, had affected my imagination and feelings
so much that I should have found it very difficult to be satisfied with any poetical tribute
to him that was not of the very highest order.

She and I walked together to the spot in the beautiful woodland where he had lain down to rest,
and where she wishes to erect a monument; and I cannot tell you how profoundly I was touched,
as we stood silently there, while the great heavy drops, melting in the winter evening's sunshine,
fell from the boughs of the beech-trees like slow tears upon the spot where he had lain.

I have read more of Stanley's "Sermons," and quite agree with you in the difference you draw
between them and Mr. Furness's book; the spirit of both is kindred....

I don't know anything about the income-tax. I am getting frightfully behind the times, having
read no Times for a long time; but as regards income-tax, or any other tax, there is no telling
how long one may be free from such galls in America. If they indulge in a few more such national
diversions as this war in Mexico, they will have to pay for their whistle, in some shape or
other, and in more shapes than one.

It is deplorable to hear the despondency of all public and political men that I see, with regard
to the condition of the country. With the Tories, one has long been familiar with their cries
that "the sky is falling:" but now the Liberals, at least those who all their lives have been
professing Liberals, seem to think "the sky is falling" too; and their lamentable misgivings
are really sad to listen to.

I dined on Saturday at Lady Grey's, with the whole Grey family. Lord Dacre, and all of them,
spoke of Cobden and Bright as of another Danton and Mirabeau, likened their corn-law league,
and peace protests, to the first measures of the first leaders of the French Revolution; and
predicted with woful headshakings a similar end to their proceedings. I do not know whether
this is an injustice to the individuals in question, but it seems to me an injustice to the
whole people of England collectively, and to their own class, the aristocracy of England, which
has incurred no such retribution, but which has invariably furnished liberal and devoted leaders
to every step of popular progress--their own father an eminent instance of devotion to it.
Such misgivings seem to me, too, quite unjust to the powerful, enlightened, and wealthy class
which forms the sound body of our sound-hearted nation: and equally unjust to those below it,
in whom, in spite of much vice and more ignorance, of poverty and degradation, the elements
of evil do not exist in the degree and with the virulence that spawned that hideous mob of
murderers who became at last the only government of revolutionary France. The antecedent causes
have not existed here for such results; and it is an insult to the whole English people to
prophesy thus of it.

    [Lord Dacre, because of his devotion to the agricultural interest,
    as he conceives it, and being himself a great practical farmer,
    seemed to me at once, at the time of the repeal of the corn laws, to
    renounce his Liberalism; and though one of the most enlightened,
    generous, and broad-minded politicians I have ever known, till
    then, to become suddenly timid, faithless, and almost selfish, in
    his fear of the consequences of Sir Robert Peel's measures.]

What a fine thing faith in God is, even when one's own individual interests must perish, even
though the temporary interests of one's country may appear threatened with adversity! What
an uncommonly fine thing it is under such circumstances to do right, and to be able to believe
in right doing!... As I listened to the persons by whom I was surrounded, and considered their
position and circumstances--their forks and spoons, their very good dinner, and all their etceteras
of luxury and enjoyment,--I thought that, having all they have, if they had faith in God and
in their fellow-creatures besides, they would have the portion of those who have none of the
good things of this world--they would have too much.

Will the days ever come when men will see that Christ believed in humanity as none of His followers
has ever done since; that He, knowing its infirmity better than any other, trusted in its capacity
for good more than any other? We are constantly told that people can't be taught this, and
can't learn that, and can't do t'other; and He taught them nothing short of absolute perfection:
"Be ye perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect." Are we to suppose He did not mean what
he said?

"I must eat my dinner," as Caliban says, and, therefore, farewell.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

P.S.--I did not impart these sentiments of mine to my fellow-guests at Lady Grey's, but kept
them in my bosom, and went to the opera, and saw little Marie Taglioni dance, in a way that
clearly shows that she is la nièce de sa tante, and stands in that wonderful dancer's shoes.

                                      KING STREET, Wednesday, 23d, 1848.

The staircase I have to go up to my dressing-room at the Princess's Theatre is one with which
you are unacquainted, my dearest Hal, for it is quite in another part of the house, beyond
the green-room, and before you come to the stage.... Not only had I this inconvenient distance
and height to go, but the dressing-room appointed for me had not even a fireplace in it; at
this I remonstrated, and am now accommodated decently in a room with a fire, though in the
same inconvenient position as regards the stage.... Mr. Maddox assured me that Macready poisoned
every place he went into, to such a degree, with musk and perfumes, that if he were to give
up his room to me I should not be able to breathe in it. With my passion for perfumes, this,
however, did not appear to me so certain; but the room I now have answers my purpose quite
well enough....

Macready is not pleasant to act with, as he keeps no specific time for his exits or entrances,
comes on while one is in the middle of a soliloquy, and goes off while one is in the middle
of a speech to him. He growls and prowls, and roams and foams, about the stage, in every direction,
like a tiger in his cage, so that I never know on what side of me he means to be; and keeps
up a perpetual snarling and grumbling like the aforesaid tiger, so that I never feel quite
sure that he has done, and that it is my turn to speak. I do not think fifty pounds a night
would hire me to play another engagement with him; but I only say, I don't think,--fifty pounds
a night is a consideration, four times a week, and I have not forgotten the French proverb,
"Il ne faut pas dire, fontaine jamais de ton eau je ne boirai."

I do not know how Desdemona might have affected me under other circumstances, but my only feeling
about acting it with Mr. Macready is dread of his personal violence. I quail at the idea of
his laying hold of me in those terrible passionate scenes; for in "Macbeth" he pinched me black
and blue, and almost tore the point lace from my head. I am sure my little finger will be rebroken,
and as for that smothering in bed, "Heaven have mercy upon me!" as poor Desdemona says. If
that foolish creature wouldn't persist in talking long after she has been smothered and stabbed
to death, one might escape by the off side of the bed, and leave the bolster to be questioned
by Emilia, and apostrophized by Othello; but she will uplift her testimony after death to her
husband's amiable treatment of her, and even the bolster wouldn't be stupid enough for that.

Did it ever occur to you what a witness to Othello's agony in murdering his wretched wife his
inefficient clumsiness in the process was--his half smothering, his half stabbing her? That
man not to be able to kill that woman outright, with one hand on her throat, or one stroke
of his dagger, how tortured he must have been, to have bungled so at his work!

I wish I was with you and Dorothy at St. Leonard's, instead of struggling here for my life--livelihood,
at any rate--with Macready; but that's foolish. He can't touch me to-night, that's one comfort,
for I am Queen Katharine.

Farewell, believe me

                              Ever yours most respectfully,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [It was lucky for me, under the circumstances, that my notion of
    Queen Katharine's relations with Cardinal Wolsey were different from
    those of a lady whom I saw in the part, who at the end of the scene
    where he finds her working among her women affably gave him her
    hand. Katharine of Arragon would have been more likely (though not
    likely) to give him her foot.]

                                               KING STREET, Friday, 23d.
  DEAR HAL,

... I had heard a very good summary of D'Israeli's speech from Lord Dacre, the day I dined
at Lady Grey's, and know why he said Cobden was like Robespierre. Here's goodly work in Paris
now! What wonderful difficult people to teach those French are! However, their lesson will,
of course, be set them over and over again, till they've learnt it. Henry Greville had a letter
from Adelaide the day before yesterday, in which she says that the people had risen en masse
at Rome, and, with the Princes Borghese and Corsini at their head, had gone to the Quirinal,
and demanded of the pope that no ecclesiastic (himself, I suppose, excepted) should have any
office in the government, and the pope had consented.

She gave a most comical account of the King of Naples, who, it seems, during the late troubles
walked up and down his room, wringing his hands, and apostrophizing a figure of the Virgin
with "Madonna mia! Madonna mia! ma che imbroglio che m'ha fatto quel Vicario del figlio tuo!"
Isn't that funny?

In a letter posted this morning I have told you my general impression of Macready's Macbeth.
It is generally good,--better than good in parts,--but nowhere very extraordinary. It is a
fair, but not a fine, performance of the part.

I cannot believe that he is purposely unjust to his fellow-actors: but he is so absorbed in
himself and his own effects as to be absolutely regardless of them; which, of course, is just
as bad for them, though the guilt of his selfishness must be according to its being deliberate
or unconscious.

I played the first scene in Lady Macbeth fairly well; the rest hardly tolerably, I think. Macready's
stage arrangements destroyed any possible effect of mine in the banquet scene, and his strange
demeanor disturbed and distracted me all through the play. The terrible, great invocation to
the powers of evil, with which Lady Macbeth's part opens, was the only thing of mine that was
good in the whole performance.

Dear Harriet, I have no time to prepare lectures on Shakespeare, and it makes me smile, a grim,
verjuice smile, when you, sitting quietly down there at St. Leonard's, propose to me such an
addition to my present work. I have been three hours and a half at rehearsal to-day; to-morrow
I act a new part; this evening I try on all my new dresses; Saturday I shall be three hours
at rehearsal again; and, meantime, I must study to recover Ophelia and her songs, which I have
almost forgotten.

A commentary upon Shakespeare deserves rather more leisure and quiet thought than I can now
bestow upon it; even such an inadequate one as I am capable of would require much preparatory
study, had I the ability which the theme demands, and which no amount of leisure Of study would
give me.... I have been in a state of miserable nervousness for the last two days--in terror
during my whole performance of Queen Katharine, lest I should forget the words, and yet, while
laboring to fix all my attention upon them, distracted with the constant recurrence of bits
of Desdemona to my mind, which I fancied I was not perfect in, and then bits of Ophelia's songs,
which I had forgotten, and have been trying to recover. The mere apprehension of having to
sing that music turns me dead sick whenever I think of it; in short, a perfect nightmare of
fright present and future, through which I have had to act every night, tant bien que mal,
but naturally bien plus mal que bien.... I do really believe, as my dear German master used
to insist, that people can prevent themselves from going mad.

My dearest Harriet, Arnold believed in eternal damnation; and those who do so must have one
very desperate corner in their mind--which, however, reserved for the wicked in the next world,
must, I should think, sometimes throw lurid reflections over people and things in this. Whoever
can conceive that idea has certainly touched the bottom of despair. "Lasciate ogni speme voi
ch'entrate;" and I do not see why those who despair of their fellow-creatures in the next world
should not do so in this. I can do neither--believe in hell hereafter, or a preparation for
it here.

I am sorry to say that, yesterday, Mr. Ellis, who sat by me at dinner at Lady Castlereagh's,
said that the poorer class in this country was about to be worse off, presently, than it had
been yet; and hoped the example of this new uprising in Paris would not be poisonous to them.
It is sad to think how much, how many suffer; but by the mode of talking and going on of those
who are well off and do not suffer, in England, it seems to me as if the condition of the poor
must become such as to threaten them with imminent peril, before they will alter either their
way of talking or of going on. Poor people all! but the rich are poorest, for they have something
to lose and everything to fear, which is the reverse of the case of the poor.

My staircase at the theatre troubles me but little, and I do not sit in the green-room, which
would have troubled me much more. My rehearsal of Desdemona tried me severely, for I was frightened
to death of Macready, and the horror of the play itself took such hold of me that at the end
I could hardly stand for shaking, or speak for crying; and Macready seemed quite mollified
by my condition, and promised not to rebreak my little finger, if he could remember it. He
lets down the bed-curtains before he smothers me, and, as the drapery conceals the murderous
struggle, and therefore he need not cover my head at all, I hope I shall escape alive.

Please tell dear Dorothy that Miss ---- called here the day before yesterday, and left Miss
B----'s songs for me. They are difficult, beyond the comprehension and execution of any but
a very good musician; they show real genius, and a taste imbued with the inspiration of the
great masters, Handel and Beethoven. The only one of them that I could sing is the only one
that is in the least commonplace, "The Bonnet Blue;" the others are beyond my powers, but I
shall get my sister to sing them for me. They are very remarkable as the compositions of so
young a woman. Did she write the words as well as the music of "The Spirit of Delight"? [The
musical compositions here referred to were those of Miss Laura Barker, afterwards Mrs. Tom
Taylor, a member of a singularly gifted family, whose father and sisters were all born artists,
with various and uncommon natural endowments, cultivated and developed to the highest degree,
in the seclusion of a country parsonage.] ...

I wish it was "bedtime, Hal," and I was smothered and over!

God bless you, dear.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     KING STREET, Friday, February 28th.
  DEAR HAL,

... I got through Desdemona very well, as far as my personal safety was concerned; for though
I fell on the stage in real hysterics at the end of one of those horrible scenes with Othello,
Macready was more considerate than I had expected, did not rebreak my little finger, and did
not really smother me in bed. I played the part fairly well, and wish you had seen it. I was
tolerably satisfied with it myself, which, you know, I am not often, with my own theatrical
performances....

Faith in God, according to my understanding of it, my dearest Hal, implies faith in man; and
have we not good need of both just now? You can well imagine the state of perturbation and
excitement London is in with these Parisian events. The universal cry and question is, "What
is the news?" People run from house to house to gather the latest intelligence. The streets
are filled with bawling paper-vendors, amidst whose indistinct vociferations the attractively
appalling words, "Revolution! Republic! Massacre! Bloodshed!" are alone distinguishable. The
loss of Saturday night's packet between Calais and Dover, besides the horror of the event itself,
is doubly distressing from the intense anxiety felt to receive intelligence of how matters
are going on.

Thus far yesterday, dear Hal; but as every hour brings intelligence that contradicts that of
the hour before, it is now known that the small boat, going from the shore to the packet, was
capsized and lost, and not the steamer itself. Henry Greville belongs to the party of Terrorists,
and believes the worst of the worst rumors: but I have just seen his mother, and Lady Charlotte
says that Charles is almost enthusiastic in his admiration of the conduct of the French people
hitherto; but then there is never any knowing exactly how long any fashion, frenzied or temperate,
moral or material, may last in France.

In the mean time, the condition of that unfortunate Royal Family is worthy of all compassion,
especially the women, who are involved in the retributions of the folly or wickedness of the
men they belong to.

It is not known where the Duchesse de Nemours is. Her husband has arrived safely here with
one of the children; but neither he nor any one else knows what has become of his wife and
the other two children. Of the Duchesse d'Orléans and her two babies nothing is known; and
Lady Normanby wrote a letter to the Queen, saying that Louis Philippe and the Queen of France
were in safety, but, as her letter would be sure to be opened, she could say no more.

Only think of the Princesse Clémentine making her escape from France on board the same packet
with her brother, the Duc de Nemours, and neither of them knowing the other was on the same
vessel! The suddenness of the whole catastrophe makes it seem like some outrageously impossible
dream. What a troubled dream must that king and queen's life seem to them, beginning and ending
in such national convulsions!...

I really believe Macready cannot help being as odious as he is on the stage. He very nearly
made me faint last night in "Macbeth," with crushing my broken finger, and, by way of apology,
merely coolly observed that he really could not answer for himself in such a scene, and that
I ought to wear a splint; and truly, if I act much more with him, I think I shall require several
splints, for several broken limbs. I have been rehearsing "Hamlet" with him this morning for
three hours. I do not mind his tiresome particularity on the stage, for, though it all goes
to making himself the only object of everything and everybody, he works very hard, and is zealous,
and conscientious, and laborious in his duty, which is a merit in itself. But I think it is
rather mean (as the children say) of him to refuse to act in such plays as "King John," "Much
Ado about Nothing," which are pieces of his own too, to oblige me; whilst I have studied expressly
for him Desdemona, Ophelia, and Cordelia, parts quite out of my line, merely that his plays
may be strengthened by my name. Moreover, he has not scrupled to ask me to study new parts,
in plays which have been either written expressly only for him, or cut down to suit his peculiar
requisitions. This, however, I have declined doing. Anything of Shakespeare's I will act with
and for him, because anything of Shakespeare's is good enough, and too good, for me.... I shall
have a nausea of fright till after I have done singing in Ophelia to-morrow night.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                  KING STREET, Tuesday, March 7th, 1848.

Indeed, my dear Hal, I was not satisfied, but profoundly dissatisfied, with my singing in Ophelia;
but am thankful to say that I did not sing out of tune, which I dreaded doing, from the miserable
nervousness I felt about it. I am entirely misplaced in the character, and can do nothing with
it that might not be better done by almost any younger woman with a sweet voice and that order
of fair beauty which one cannot separate from one's idea of Ophelia.

I have read Stanley's sermon on St. Peter, and am enchanted with it, and more than ever struck
with the resemblance, in its general spirit, and even in actual passages, to my friend Mr.
Furness's book. The notes and commentary upon the sermon are the part of Stanley's work that
show more erudition and literary power than Mr. Furness's treatise contained, but the manner
and matter of the writers shows close kindred when treating of the same subjects.

We overflow here with anecdotes of the hairbreadth escapes of the French fugitives. Guizot
and Madame de Liéven, his dear friend and evil genius, arrived both in London on the same day,
having travelled from Paris in the same railroad train as far as Amiens; she with the painter
Roberts, passing as his wife, and Guizot so disguised that she did not recognize him, and would
not believe Lord Holland when he called upon her on Saturday and told her that Guizot had arrived
like herself, and by the same train, the day before. Hotels and private houses are thronged
with French and English tumbling over, a perfect stampede, from the other side of the Channel.
Lady Dufferin, who during her long stay in Paris made many French friends, is exercising hospitality
to the tune of having thirty people in her house in Brook Street.

Charles Greville showed me on Saturday a capital letter of Lord Clarendon's upon the subject
of his kingdom [he was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland at this time], and the probable and possible
effects of this French Revolution on your quiet, orderly, well-principled countrymen. He also
showed me a letter he had received from E---- from Rome, in which, I think, the account of
the pope is that of a man being carried off his legs by the popular exigencies, which he cannot
resist and at the same time remain pope--the head of the priestly Roman Catholic Government.

Yesterday came news that Metternich had resigned. If this is true, the forward step Italy is
about to take need not, please God! be made in blood and violent social upheaving. I do pray
that this news may be true, for it will probably avert a fire-and-sword revolution in the Milanese,
and all through Lombardy, in which Piedmont would sympathize too warmly for its own peace and
quiet.

Austria, thus deserted by the presiding genius of her hitherto Italian policy, Metternich,
will perhaps hesitate to enforce its threatened opposition to the changes which she might have
sold at the cost of many lives, but would not have averted, though she overran Italy from end
to end with war and desolation.

This retreat of the great political powers of darkness before the advance of freedom in Italy
seems to me like a personal happiness to myself. I rejoice unspeakably in it. It is quite another
matter in France. It will be another matter here, whenever our turn to be turned upside down
or inside out comes.

In Italy the people are rising against foreign tyranny, to get rid of foreign dominion, and
to get rightful possession of the government of their own country. In France the revolution
against power is past, but that against property is yet to come. As for us, our revolt against
iniquitous power ended with the final expulsion of the Stuarts; but we have sundry details
of that wholesale business yet to finish, and there will be here some sort of property revolution,
in some mode or other, yet.

The crying sin of modern Christian civilization, the monstrous inequalities in the means of
existence, will yet be dealt with by us English, among whom it is more flagrant than anywhere
else on earth.

It is the one revolution of which our social system seems to me to stand in need, the last
that can be directly affected, if not effected, by legislative action upon the tenure of land,
the whole system of proprietorship of the soil, the spread of education, and the extension
of the franchise: and, as we are the richest and the poorest people in the world, as the extremes
of rampant luxury and crawling poverty are wider asunder here than anywhere else on earth,
the force must be great--I pray God it may be gradual--that draws those opposite ends of the
social scale into more humane nearness.

I cannot believe that any violent convulsions will attend inevitable necessary change here;
for, in spite of the selfish passions of both rich and poor, our people do fear God, more,
I think, than any other European nation, and recognize a law of duty; and there is good sense
and good principle enough in all classes, I believe, to meet even radical change with firmness
and temperance.

The noble body politic of England is surely yet so sound and healthy and vigorous as to go
through any crisis for the cure of any local disease, any partial decay, without danger to
the whole; though not, perhaps, without difficulty and suffering both to classes and individuals.

God is over all, and I do not believe that one of the most Christian of nations will perish
in the attempt to follow the last of Christ's commandments, "Love one another."

I am painfully impressed with what constantly seems to me the short-sightedness of the clever
worldly-wise people I hear talking upon these subjects, and the deep despondence of those who
see a great cloud looming up over the land. Our narrow room and redundant population make any
sudden violent political movement dangerous, perhaps; but I have faith in the general wholesome
spirit of our people, their good sense and good principle. I have the same admiration for and
confidence in our national character that I have in the institutions of the United States.

God keep this precious England safe!...

                              I am ever yours most truly,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                KING STREET, Wednesday, March 8th, 1848.

My little finger has recovered from Macready. It is gradually getting much better, but he certainly
did it an injury. With regard to his "relenting," he is, I am told, quite uncommonly gracious
and considerate to me....

I was told by a friend of mine who was at "Hamlet" the other evening, that in the closet scene
with his mother he had literally knocked the poor woman down who was playing the Queen. I thought
this an incredible exaggeration, and asked her afterwards if it was true, and she said so true
that she was bruised all across her breast with the blow he had given her; that, happening
to take his hand at a moment when he did not wish her to do so, he had struck her violently
and knocked her literally down; so I suppose I may consider it "relenting" that he never yet
has knocked me down....

We are quite lively now in London with riots of our own--a more exciting process than merely
reading of our neighbors' across the Channel. Last night a mob, in its playful progress though
this street, broke the peaceful windows of this house. There have been great meetings in Trafalgar
Square these two last evenings, in which the people threw stones about, and made a noise, but
that was all they did by all accounts. They have smashed sundry windows, and the annoyance
and apprehension occasioned by their passage wherever they go is very great. Nothing serious,
however, has yet occurred; and I suppose, if the necessity for calling out the military can
be avoided, nothing serious will occur. But if these disorderly meetings increase in number
and frequency the police will not be sufficient to moderate and disperse them, and the troops
will have to be called out, and we shall have terrible mischief, for our soldiers will not
fraternize with the London mob, the idea of duty--of which the French soldiers or civilians
have but a meagre allowance (glory, honor, anything else you please, in abundance)--being the
one idea in the head of an English soldier and of most English civilians, thank God!

The riots in Glasgow have been very serious; the population of that city, especially the women,
struck me as the most savage and brutal looking I had ever seen in this country; and I remember
frequently, while I was there, thinking what a terrible mob the lowest class of its inhabitants
would make.

Metternich's resignation, of which I wrote you yesterday, is, alas! uncertain. I had rejoiced
at it for the sake of that beautiful Italy, and all her political martyrs past and to come.

Good-bye, God bless you. I shall go and see some of those great mobs of ours. It must be a
curious and interesting spectacle.

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                  KING STREET, Saturday and Sunday,
                                              March 11th and 12th, 1848.
  DEAREST HAL,

The "uses of adversity," which are assuredly often "sweet," should help to reconcile us both
to our own sorrows and those which are sometimes harder to bear, the sorrows of those we love....
I have not yet been able to accomplish my intention of seeing anything of our great political
mobs; and they are now beginning to subside, having been rather rackets than riots in their
demonstrations, I am happy to say, and therefore not very curious or interesting in any point
of view.

But there is to be a very large meeting at Kennington on Monday, and Alfred Potocki said he
would take me to it, but as I have to act that night I am afraid it would be hardly conscientious
to run the risk of an accidental blow from a brickbat that might disable me for my work, which
is my duty, though, I confess, it is a great temptation. My friend, Comte Potocki, is young
and tall and strong and active, but I would a great deal rather have paid a policeman to look
after me, as I did when I went to see a fire, than have depended upon the care of a gentleman
who would feel himself hampered by having me to care for. After all, I shall probably give
it up, and not go....

My father tells me he has definitely renounced all idea of reading again, so I took heart of
grace to ask him to lend me the plays he read from, to mark mine by. The copy he used is a
Hanmer, in six large quarto volumes, and belongs to Lane, the artist, who has very kindly lent
it to me. My father's marks are most elaborate, but the plays are cruelly sacrificed to the
exigencies of the performance--as much maimed, I think, as they are for stage representation.
My father has executed this inevitable mangling process with extreme good judgment and taste;
but it gives me the heart-ache, for all that. But he was timed, and that impatiently, by audiences
who would barely sit two hours in their places, and required that the plays should be compressed
into the measure of their intellectual short-suffering capacity.

However, it was at the Palace that he had to compress or rather compel the five acts of "Cymbeline"
into a reading of three quarters of an hour: and how he performed that feat is still incomprehensible
to me....

Everything is black and sad enough as far as I can see, but, thank God, I cannot see far, and
every day has four-and-twenty hours, and in every minute of every hour live countless seeds
of invisible events. I heard a very good sermon to-day upon Christian liberty, and have been
reading Stanley's sermon upon St. Paul, which made my heart burn within me.... I am reading
an immensely thick book by Gioberti, one of the Italian reformers, a devout and eloquent Catholic
priest, and it enchants me.

Good-bye, my dear.

                              I am ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                     KING STREET, Wednesday, 16th, 1848.

Of course you have heard of the murder of the soldier by that poor girl in the park. I have
heard nothing more special about it, and have not seen the newspapers lately, so you probably
know more about it than I do. Emily tells me this morning that there were some excellent observations
upon the circumstance, either in the Examiner or Spectator. It will be long before women are
justly dealt with by the social or civil codes of Christian communities to which they belong,
longer still before they are righteously dealt with by the individuals to whom they belong;
but it will not be for ever. With the world's progress that reform will come, too; though I
believe it will be the very last before the millennium.

I hope this poor unfortunate will be recommended to the Queen's mercy, and escape hanging,
unless, as might be just possible, she prefers depending on a gibbet to the tender mercies
of Christian society--especially its women--towards a woman who, after being seduced by a man,
murdered him.

Did I never tell you of that unhappy creature in New York, who was in the same situation, except
that the villain she stabbed did not die, who was tried and acquitted, and who found a shelter
in Charles Sedgwick's house, and who, when the despairing devil of all her former miseries
took possession of her, used to be thrown into paroxysms of insane anguish, during which Elizabeth
[Mrs. Charles Sedgwick] used to sit by her and watch her, and comfort her and sing to her,
till she fell exhausted with misery into sleep? That poor woman used to remind me of my children's
nurse....

I receive frequent complaints, not from you only, that I do not write sufficiently in detail
about myself. It is on that account that I am always so glad to be asked questions, because
they remind me of what my friends specially desire to know about me when otherwise I should
be apt to write to them about what interested me, rather than what I was doing or saying, and
the things and people that surround me, which I do not always find interesting.

You do just the same; your letters are very often indeed discussions upon matters of abstract
speculation rather than tidings of yourself,--your doing, being, or suffering,--and I have
not objected to this in you, though it has given me a deal of trouble in answering you, because
I like people to go their own way in everything; moreover, unless I am reminded by questions
of what is happening to me, it interests me so little that I should probably forget to mention
it....

If my faith, dearest Hal, depended upon my knowledge of the means by which the results in which
I have faith will be achieved, I should have some cause for despondency. Do you suppose I imagine
that the sudden violence of a national convulsion will make people Christians who are not so?...
My answer to all your questions as to how momentous changes for the better are to be brought
about in public affairs, in popular institutions, in governments, can only be--I do not know.
I believe in them, nevertheless, for I believe in God's law, and in Christ's teaching of it,
and the obviously ordained progress of the human race. True it is that Christ's teaching, ruling
in every man's heart, can only be the distant climax of this progress; but when that does so
rule, all other "governments" will be unnecessary: but though we are far enough off from that
yet, we are nearer than we ever yet have been; and until that has become the supreme government
of the world, changes must go on perpetually in our temporary and imperfect institutions, by
which the onward movement is accelerated, at what speed who can tell? It seems to me that the
geological growth of our earth has been rapid, compared to the moral growth of our race; but
so it is apparently ordained. Individual goodness is the great power of all,--societies, organizations,
combinations, institutions, laws, governments, act from the surface downwards far less efficaciously
than from the root upwards, and what it does is done.

Comparatively cheap forms of government are among the most obvious and reasonable changes to
be desired in Europe; but you mistake me if you suppose I am looking for instantaneous Utopias
born out of national uproar and confusion. But as long as the love of God is not a sufficiently
powerful motive with the nations of the earth to make them seek to know and do His will, revolution,
outrage, carnage, fear, and suffering are, I suppose, the spurs that are to goad them on to
bettering themselves; and so national agonies seem to me like individual sorrows--dispensations
sent to work improvement.

Fourierism was received with extreme enthusiasm in New England, where various societies have
been formed upon the plan of Fourier's suggestions, and this not by the poor or lower classes,
but by the voluntary association of the rich with the poor in communities where all worldly
goods were in common, and labor, too, so foolishly fairly in common that delicately bred and
highly educated women took their turn to stand all day at the wash-tub, for the benefit of
the society, though surely not of their shirts.

I have conversed much in America with disciples of this school, but am of opinion, in spite
of their zeal, that no such scheme of social improvement will be found successful, and that
this violent precipitating one's self from the sphere in which one is placed in the scale of
civilization is not what is wanted, but much rather the full performance of our several duties
at the post where we each of us stand and have been providentially placed. The old English
catechism of Christian obligation taught us that we were to do our duty in that state of life
into which it had pleased God to call us--and if we did, there would be small need of revolutions.

In America these social experiments were perfectly disinterested and undertaken for the sake
of moral good results; for where they were tried, there was neither excessive wealth nor poverty
to suggest them, and the excellent and intelligent people thus brought together by pure zeal
for social improvement disagreed and grumbled with each other, were so perfectly and uncomfortably
unsuccessful in their experiments that their whole scheme collapsed, and dissolved into the
older social disorders from which they had thought to raise themselves and others....

  MY DEAR HAL,

... I do not see why a much greater subdivision of land would not be beneficial in England.
Of course, if to the example of America you retort all its singular and advantageous conditions,
I have nothing to say; but how about Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Switzerland? where small
proprietorship appears to result in prosperity both to the land and its cultivators. I do not
believe that the tenure of land will long continue what it is here, nor do I believe, in spite
of the warlike notes of preparation from all sides of the Continent just now, that the day
of great standing armies can last much longer--neither in France nor England, surely, can the
people consent much longer to be taxed as they are for military purposes....

I told you of my having found, in the theatre at Norwich, a couple of young people whose position
had interested me much. They were very poor, but gentlefolks, and sorely as they needed money,
I could not offer it to them, so I promised to go down to Lynn, and act for them whenever they
could obtain their manager's leave to have me.... And on Saturday, the 18th, I shall go down
to Mrs. H----'s, my dear friend Harness's niece, who lives within seven miles of Lynn, and
visit her, while I do what I can for them.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                   BILNEY, NEAR LYNN, NORFOLK, Monday, March 20th, 1848.
  MY DEAREST HARRIET,

I may or may not be very nervous on the occasion of my Saturday's reading at Highgate. [It
was the first I ever gave--a mere experiment to test my powers for the purpose; was in a small
room, and before an audience in which were some of my intimate friends.] It will probably depend
upon whether I am tolerably well or not, but I trust I shall not annoy you, my dear, if you
are with me....

Did I tell you that I met Mr. Swinton at Lady Castlereagh's the other evening, and that he
very amiably invited me to go and see his pictures before they went to the exhibition?--so
perhaps we may see them together when we come to town. I had an application from an artist
the other day, who is painting a picture from "Macbeth," to sit for his Lady for him; and I
have undertaken to do so, which is a bore, and therefore very good-natured of me.... This place
itself is pretty, though the country round it is not. The weather is cold and rainy and uncomfortable,
and I shall be almost glad to get back to London, and to see you. "Now, isn't that strange?"
as Benedick says.

I am afraid, moreover, that my errand here, which will cost me both trouble and money, will
not answer too well to the poor people I wish to serve. Only think of their manager making
them pay for the use of the theatre at a rate that will swallow up the best part of what I
can bring into it for them. Isn't it a shame?... This is an out-of-the-way part of the world
enough, as I think you will allow, when I tell you that one policeman suffices for three parishes,
and that his authority is oftenest required to reclaim wandering poultry. Moreover, the curate,
who does duty in both this and the adjoining parish for sixty pounds a year, preaches against
his patron, whose pew is immediately under the pulpit, designating him by the general exemplary
and illustrative title of the "abandoned profligate." The latter thus vaguely indicated individual
is a middle-aged widower of perhaps not immaculate morals, but who, as lord of the manor and
chief landed proprietor in these parts, is allowed to be charitable and kind enough,--which,
however, will not, I am afraid, save him--at least in the opinion of his clergyman. The country
people are remarkably ignorant, unenlightened, unpolitical, unpoetical rustics, but remarkably
well off, paying only three pounds a year for excellent four-roomed cottages, having abundance
of cheap and good food, and various rights of common, and privileges which help to make them
comfortable. It is an astonishingly sleepy and quiet sort of community and neighborhood, and
this is a pretty place, on the edge of a wild common, with fine clumps of fir-wood about it,
and a picturesquely colored district of heath, gorse, broom, and pine growth, extending just
far enough round the grounds to make one believe one was in a pretty country.

As I hear no more of the present French Revolution down here, I am reading Lamartine's ("Les
Girondins") account of their first one. It's just like reading to-day's Paris newspaper.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

You will be glad to hear that, after encountering every possible let and hindrance from their
amiable manager, and being made by him to pay ten pounds for the use of the theatre, company,
gas, etc, my poor young fellow-actors, for whose sake I came down here, will have cleared a
sum that will be an immense help to poor folk living upon £2 a week. I was delighted with having
been able to serve them much better than I had feared I might. People's comparative earnings
make me reflect. I have been grumbling not a little at my weekly earnings. Thackeray, for that
wonderful book, "Vanity Fair," gets £60 a month; the curate who preached to us on Sunday and
does duty in two parishes has £60 a year. Perpend! Good-bye, my dear.

                              Believe me ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                                  PORTSMOUTH, Wednesday.
  DEAR T----,

What a marvellous era in the world's history is this we are living in! Kings, princes, and
potentates flying dismayed to the right and left, and nation after nation rising up, demanding
a freedom which God knows how few of them seem capable of using.

The last month in Europe has been like the breathless reading of the most exciting novel, and
every day and hour almost teems with events that surpass in suddenness and importance all that
has gone before.

The Austrians will not give up Italy without a struggle, and I suppose through that channel
the floodgates will be thrown open that will deluge all Europe with blood.

Is not the position of the Emperor of Russia awful in its singularity--the solitary despot
of the civilized world?

The great body of the Austrian empire is falling asunder, and all its limbs standing up, separate
national bodies. Hungary, Bohemia, Poland will again have individual existence, and the King
of Prussia will be undoubtedly hereafter the head of a huge German Confederacy.

In the mean time, I am sure you will rejoice that Metternich was mistaken, and that "it," as
he was pleased to designate the existing state of Europe, did not even, as he said it would,
"last his time."

Our country is wonderful; I mean this, my blessed England receiving into her bosom the exiled
minister and dethroned King of France, and the detested Crown Prince of Prussia, with the dispassionate
hospitality of a general house of refuge for ruined royalties.

The spirit and temper of this English people is noble in its steadfastness: with much of national
grievance to redress and burdens to throw off, the long habit of comparative freedom, and the
innately loyal and conservative character of the nation, have produced a popular feeling that
at this time of universal disturbance is most striking in its deliberate adherence to established
right and good order. Alone of all the thrones in Europe, that of our excellent queen and her
admirable consort stands unshaken; alone of all the political constitutions, that of the country
they govern is threatened with no fatal convulsion: in the midst of the failing credit and
disturbed financial interests of the Continent, our funds have been gradually advancing in
value, and our public credit rises as the aspect of affairs becomes more and more involved
and threatening abroad.

Ireland is our weak point, and, as we have to atone there for cruelty, and injustice, and neglect,
too long persisted in, that will be the quarter from which we shall receive our share of the
national judgments which are being executed all over the world.

A short time ago I saw an admirable letter of Lord Clarendon's, who is now Lord Lieutenant;
but though he has hitherto conducted his most difficult government with great ability, there
is so much real evil in the condition of the Irish that, combined with their folly, their ignorance,
and the wickedness of their instigators, I do not think it possible that the summer will pass
over without that wretched country again becoming the theatre of anarchy and turbulent resistance
to authority.

My brother-in-law has returned from Rome, and my sister will follow him as soon as the weather
will admit of her crossing the Alps with her babies. All his property is in the French funds,
that seems an insecure security nowadays....

In England we shall have an extended right of suffrage, a smaller army, a cheaper government,
reduced taxation, and some modification of the land tenure,--change, but no revolution, and
no fits, I think. This people deserve freedom, for they alone, and you, descended from them,
have shown that they know what it means. Considerable changes we shall have, but the wisdom
and wealth of our middle classes is a feature in our social existence without European parallel;
it is the salvation of the country. I know you hate crossed writing, so good-bye. I am afraid
these fantastic French fools will bring Republicanism into contempt. France seems to be threatened
with national bankruptcy, et puis--alors--vous verrez.

                              Always affectionately yours,
                                                                F. A. B.

                                                             COLCHESTER.

I came from Yarmouth to-day, having lodged there in a strange old inn that belonged, in our
Republican days, to Judge Bradshaw; in one room of which, they say, Cromwell signed Charles
I.'s death-warrant; but this, I think, is a mistake. He is said, however to have lived much
in the house, which, at that time, belonged to the Bradshaw family. The house is of a much
earlier date, though, than that, and was once, undoubtedly, a royal residence; for in a fine
old oak room, the carved panelling of which was as black as ebony, the ceiling was all wrought
with the roses and the fleur-de-lys. The kitchen and bar-room were both made out of an old
banqueting-hall, immensely lofty, and with a very fine carved ceiling, and stone-mullioned
windows, of capital style and preservation. The staircase was one of those precious, broad,
easy-graded ascents, up which you could almost take a carriage, with a fine heavy oak baluster;
and on the upper floor three good-sized rooms made out of one, with another elaborately carved
ceiling. It was really a most curious and picturesque place, and is now the "Star Inn" at Yarmouth,
and will doubtless become gradually changed and modernized and pulled to pieces, till both
its remaining fine old characteristics and its traditions are lost--as, in good measure, they
already are, for, as I said before, the house bears traces of having been a royal residence
long before Cromwell's time....

The older English country-houses are full of quaint and picturesque relics of former times;
but I think there is a cruel indifference sometimes to their preservation; e.g., think of the
Norwich people allowing the house of Sir Thomas Browne to be dismantled of all its wood-carving,
which was sent up to London and sold in morsels, I suppose, to the Jews in Wardour Street.

                              Yours affectionately,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   PORTSMOUTH, Friday, March 31st, 1848.

I did not walk on my arrival in Portsmouth, dear Hal, but dined. The day was very beautiful
all along, and I enjoyed as much of it as my assiduous study of the Times newspaper would allow.

I am glad you saw Mitchell, because now you can conceive what a funny colloquy that was of
mine with him, about the price of the seats at my readings. [Mr. Mitchell, court bookseller,
queen's publisher, box-letter to the nobility, general undertaker of pleasures and amusements
for the fashionable great world of London, was my manager and paymaster throughout all my public
reading career in England.] In making the preliminary arrangements for them he had, in my opinion,
put the prices too high, demanding ten shillings for them. When I said they were not worth
two, and certainly ought not to be charged more than five, he replied, with much feeling for
the British aristocracy, whom he idolized, and whom he thought fit on this occasion to designate,
collectively, under the title of my friend Lord Lansdowne, that he couldn't think of insulting
him by making him pay only five shillings to hear me read. I wonder why poor dear Lord Lansdowne
can't be asked five shillings? I would have charged him, and all the smaller and greater nobility
of the realm, half a crown, and been rather ashamed of the pennyworth they got for it. But
a thing is worth what it will fetch, and no one knows that better than Mr. Mitchell. I should
think any sensible being would prefer paying half a crown to the honor and glory of disbursing
twice that sum for a two-hours' reading--even by me, even of Shakespeare. I wish, while you
were in personal connection with my manager Mitchell, you had remonstrated with him about those
ridiculous dandified advertisements. You might have expressed my dislike of such fopperies,
and perhaps saved me a few shillings in pink and blue and yellow note-paper; though it really
almost seems a pity to interfere with the elegancies of poor Mitchell, who is nothing if not
elegant. However, I wish he would not be so at my expense, who have no particle of that exquisite
quality in my whole composition, and find the grovelling one of avarice growing daily upon me.

I have already had a letter from Henry Greville this morning, telling me the result of two
interviews he has had with Mitchell about the readings; also--which interests me far more than
my own interests--of the utter routing of the Austrians in the Milanese--hurrah!--also of his
determination to buy the house in Eaton Place.... Adelaide must come home by sea, for it is
impossible that she should travel either through France or Germany without incurring the risk
of much annoyance, if nothing worse. The S---- in the dragoon regiment in Dublin is E----'s
younger brother....

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                        BANNISTERS, Tuesday, 14th, 1848.

Liston's [the eminent surgeon] death shocked me very much, and I felt very certain that he
was himself aware of his own condition. I observed, during my intercourse with him latterly,
a listless melancholy in his manner, a circumstance that puzzled me a good deal in contrast
with his powerful frame, and vigorous appearance, and blunt, offhand manner. I think I understand
now, and can compassionate certain expressions in his last note to me, which, when I received
it, made a painful and unfavorable impression upon me. I suppose he did not believe in a future
state of existence, and have no doubt that, latterly, he had a distinct anticipation of his
own impending annihilation. His great strength and magnificent physical structure, of course,
suggested no such apprehension to persons who knew nothing of his malady [Liston died of aneurism
in the throat], but when I saw him last he told me he was much more ill than I was; that he
had been spitting up a quantity of blood, and was "all wrong." ...

I cannot take your thanks, my dear Hal, about "Wilhelm Meister." ... I never offer anything
to any one; neither would I willingly, when asked for it, withhold anything from any one. I
believe the only difference that I really make between my "friends" and my "fellow-creatures"
is one of pure sentiment: I love the former, and am completely indifferent to the latter, but
I would do as much for the latter as for the former.

My marks in "Wilhelm Meister" will not, as you expect, "explain themselves," for the passages
that I admire for their artistic literary beauty, their keen worldly wisdom, their profound
insight, and noble truth, as well as those which charm me only by their brilliant execution,
and those which command my whole, my entire feeling of sympathy, are all alike indicated by
the one straight line down the side of the text. I think, however, you will distinguish what
I agree with from what I only admire. It is a wonderful book, and its most striking characteristic
to me is its absolute moral, dispassionate impartiality. Outward loveliness of the material
universe, inward ugliness of human nature in its various distortions; the wisdom and the foolishness
of man's aims, and the modes of pursuing them; the passions of the senses, the affections of
the heart, the aspirations of the soul; the fine metaphysical experiences of the transcendental
religionists; the semi-sensual, outward piety of the half-idolatrous Roman Catholic; the great
and the little, the shallow and the deep of humanity in this its stage of action and development,--are
delineated with the most perfect apparent indifference of sentiment, combined with the most
perfect accuracy of observation. He pleads no cause of man or thing, and the absence of all
indication of human sympathy is very painful to me in his book. It is only because God is represented
as a Being of perfect love that we can endure the idea of Him as also a Being of perfect knowledge.
Goethe, as I believe I have told you, always reminds me of Ariel, a creature whose nature--superhuman
through power and knowledge of various kinds--is under-human in other respects (love and the
capacity of sympathy), and was therefore subject to the nobler moral nature of Prospero. Activity
seems to be the only principle which Goethe advocates, activity and earnestness--especially
in self-culture,--and in this last quality, which he sublimely advocates, I find the only comfortable
element in his wonderful writings. He is inhuman, not superhuman.

God bless you. Good-bye.

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

                                   KING STREET, St. James, Friday, 17th.
  MY DEAREST HAL,

I cannot be making arrangements for going over to Dublin so far ahead as the 22d of May, for
by that time Dublin may have been swallowed up by Young Ireland.

Your theory of my reading elegant extracts from Shakespeare is very pretty, but absolutely
nothing to the purpose for my purpose.... All that is merely especially beautiful is sedulously
cut out in my reading version, in order to preserve the skeleton of the story; because the
audiences that I shall address are not familiar with the plays, and what they want is as much
as possible of the excitement of a dramatic entertainment to be obtained without entering the
doors of a theatre....

You forget to what a number of people Lambs and Bullocks give their names; Hog, which, by the
bye, is spelt Hogge, has by no means the pre-eminence in that honor.

I saw Lady Lansdowne the other day, who said the ministers were extremely anxious about Ireland,
and that the demonstrations with regard to St. Patrick's day kept them in a state of great
alarm. Lord Lansdowne is tolerably well just now, but has been quite ill; and Lord John Russell
is so ill and worn out that they say he will be obliged to resign: in which case I suppose
Lord Lansdowne would be premier. The position of people at the head of governments in this
year of grace is certainly not enviable. D'Israeli said, last night, he couldn't see why Dublin
should not be burnt to the ground; that he could understand the use of London, or even of Paris,
but that the use of Dublin was a mystery. I suggested its being the spring and source and fountain-head
of Guinness's stout, but I don't think he considered even that a sufficient raison d'être for
your troublesome capital, or porter an equivalent for the ten righteous men who might save a city.

Thackeray tells a comical story of having received a letter from his father-in-law in Paris,
urging him by all means to send over his daughter there, and indeed go over himself, for that
the frightful riots in England, especially those in London, Trafalgar Square, Kennington, etc.,
must of course make it a most undesirable residence; and that they would find Paris a much
safer and quieter one: which reminds me of the equally earnest entreaties of my dear American
friends that I should hasten to remove my poor pennies from the perilous guardianship of the
Bank of England and convert them with all despatch to the safe-keeping of American securities!

I have been going out a good deal during the last three weeks, and mean to continue to do so
while I am in London, partly because, as I am about to go away, I wish to see as much as I
can of its pleasant and remarkable society, and partly, too, from a motive of policy, though
I hate it almost as much as Sir Andrew Aguecheek did. I mean to read in London before I leave
it, and a great many of my fine lady and gentlemen acquaintances will come and hear me, provided
I don't give them time to forget my existence, but keep them well in mind of it by duly presenting
myself amongst them. "Out of sight, out of mind," is necessarily the motto of all societies,
and considerations of interest more than pleasure often induce our artists and literary men
to produce themselves in the world lest they should be forgotten by it. Nor, indeed, is this
merely the calculation of those who expect any profit from society; the very pleasure-hunters
themselves find that they must not get thrown out, or withdraw for a moment, or disappear below
the surface for an instant, for if they do the mad tide goes over them, and they are neither
asked for, nor looked for, called for, nor thought of, "Qui quitte sa place la perd," and there
is nothing so easy as to be forgotten....

Besides all this, now that my departure from England approaches, I feel as if I had enjoyed
and profited too little by the intercourse of all the clever people I live among, and whose
conversation you know I take considerable pleasure in. I begin now, in listening, as I did
last night, to D'Israeli and Milnes and Carlyle, and E----'s artist friend, Mr. Swinton, to
remember that these are bright lights in one of the brightest intellectual centres in Europe,
and that I am within their sphere but for a time....

I called at the Milmans' yesterday, and found Mrs. Austin there, whom I listened to, almost
without drawing breath, for an hour. She has just returned from Paris, where she lived with
all the leading political people of the day, and she says she feels as if she had been looking
at a battle-field strewn with her acquaintances. Her account of all that is going on is most
interesting, knowing as she does all the principal actors and sufferers in these events, personally
and intimately.

To-day the report is that the Bank of France has suspended payment. The ruin of the Rothschilds
is not true, though they are great losers by these catastrophes. The Provisional Government
has very wisely and wittily devised, as a means of raising money, to lay a tax of six hundred
francs a year upon everybody who keeps more than one servant! Can folly go beyond that?

Henry Greville showed me yesterday a letter he had received from Paris from Count Pahlen, saying
that, though the guillotine was not yet erected, the reign of terror had virtually commenced;
for that the pusillanimous dread that kept the whole nation in awe of a handful of pickpockets
could be described as nothing else.

I am much concerned about E----'s fortune, the whole of which is, I believe, lodged in French
funds. All property there must be in terrible jeopardy, I fear.

Lady G---- F---- went to Claremont two days ago, and says that Louis Philippe's deportment
is that of a servant out of place. She did not add, "Pas de bonne maison." ...

                              Ever yours,
                                                                  FANNY.

    [On the famous 10th of April, the day of the great Chartist meeting,
    I drove from King Street to Westminster Bridge in the morning,
    before the monster demonstration took place; and though the shops
    were shut and the streets deserted, everything was perfectly quiet
    and orderly, and nothing that appeared indicated the political
    disturbance with which the city was threatened--the dread of which
    induced people, as far as the Regent's Park from the Houses of
    Parliament, to pack up their valuables and plate, etc., and prepare
    for instant flight from London. In the evening, my friends would
    hardly believe my peaceful progress down Whitehall, and I heard two
    striking incidents, among the day's smaller occurrences: that Prince
    Louis Napoleon had enrolled himself among the special constables for
    the preservation of peace and order; and that M. Guizot, standing
    where men of every grade, from dandies to draymen, were flocking to
    accept the same service of public preservation, kept exclaiming,
    with tears in his eyes, "Oh, le brave peuple! le brave peuple!"--a
    contrast certainly to his Parisian barricaders.

    In the summer of 1848 I returned to America, where my great good
    fortune in the success of my public readings soon enabled me to
    realize my long-cherished hope of purchasing a small cottage and a
    few acres of land in the beautiful and beloved neighborhood of
    Lenox.]

THE END.

INDEX

  ADELAIDE, Queen Dowager, 335, 340, 341

  Albert, Prince, 321, 324, 341

  Alexis, his mesmeric powers, 228

  Alfieri, 21

  Allen, Dr., 62

  Alvanley, Lord, 74

  America, character of Americans, 4;
    no poor, 6;
    servants in, 8;
    society in, 26;
    climate, 33;
    travel between and England, 39;
    scenery, 42;
    expression of faces in, 51;
    medical treatment in, 82;
    overwork of Americans, 91;
    medicinal waters in, 96;
    bathing in, 97;
    railroads in, 104;
    the Dismal Swamp, 108;
    the "place where a place was intended to be," 109;
    American decorum, 110;
    corduroy, 112;
    North Carolina natives, 116;
    tobacco-chewing, 116;
    a North Carolina "Colonel," 117;
    slavery on Butler's Island, 136;
    its influence on the whites, 137;
    hotels, 151;
    4th of July in Philadelphia, 152;
    equality in, 152;
    health in, 167;
    "carrying on" financially, 176;
    Irish servants in, 184, 195;
    presidential election, 204;
    war with England, 206;
    the credit system in, 288;
    divorces in, 292;
    slavery in, 307;
    a story of slavery, 370;
    society, 403;
    public spirit, 405;
    an American on America, 415;
    contrasted with Italy, 466;
    spirit of conformity, 550

  Amistad, 185;
    history of, 186

  Anne the nurse, on the Rhine, 256;
    at Bowood, 273;
    objects to be waited on, 275, 279, 296, 297, 321;
    her views of presentation, 325

  Appleton, Miss, 18, 101, 228

  Ardgillan Castle, 13

  Arkwrights, 251, 493, 495

  Arnold, 420, 424;
    his influence, 425;
    his opinions, 430;
    life of, 432, 434, 444;
    character of his pupils, 446, 448;
    his "letters," 452, 453, 619, 645

  Ashburton, Lady, 219, 281

  Ashburton, Lord, 360, 372, 380

  Ashley, Lord, 444

  Austen, Charles, 281

  Austin, Lucy, 578

  Austin, Mrs., 3, 578, 666

  BABBAGE, 273

  Bach, 262

  Balzac, 255;
    "Recherche de l'Absolu," 451

  Banian, Mrs., 271

  Barker, Laura, 646

  Beaumont, Mr., 183

  Beaumont, Mrs. Wentworth, carrying a contested election, 183

  Becker, Dr., magnetized, 231

  Bedford, Duchess of, 303, 304, 339

  Bedford, Duke of, 303, 360, 514

  Beecher, Lady, 77

  Beethoven, 265, 623

  Bendermann, 269

  Benedict, 373

  Bentley, 337

  Berkeley, Craven, 312

  Berkeley, Earl of, his encounter with a highwayman, 316

  Berkeley, Frederick, 312

  Berkeley, Grantley, 312

  Berkeley, Henry, 310, 312, 313

  Berkeley, Lady, 308;
    her story, 310, 349, 369

  Berkeley, Lady Mary, 313, 369

  Berkeley, Lord, 311

  Berkeley, Morton, 313;
    the contents of his pockets, 314

  Bernhardt, Sarah, 246

  Berry, Miss, 295, 356, 373, 419, 443, 458;
    declining health, 499; 518, 617, 625

  Berrys, The Miss, 45, 64

  Bessborough, Lord, 501

  Biddle, Nicholas, 289, 299

  Blackett, John, 619

  Bohn, 371

  Borghese, Prince, 644

  Bossuet, 618

  Brackenbury, Mr., 555

  Bradshaw, Judge, 660

  Brand, Hon. Thomas, 526, 631

  Brand, Mrs., 526

  Bremer, Frederica, 444

  Bright, 206, 640

  Brougham, Lord, 549

  Browne, Sir Thomas, 39, 661

  Browning, 373, 447

  Bruce, Mrs., 421

  Brunel, 273

  Buccleuch, Duchess of, 356

  Bulteel, Lady Elizabeth, 516

  Bunn, Mr., 367, 426

  Bunsen, Baron, 431, 432, 434;
    his character, 445;
    on Arnold, 448

  Bunsen, Mrs., 467

  Butler's Island, 134, 135, 152, 157, 169

  Byng, Frederick, 62, 360, 373, 380, 554

  Byron, Lady, 3, 165, 577

  Byron, Lord, 21

  CALCRAFT, Mr., 494

  Caliban, 569

  Callcott, Lady, 366

  Callcott, Mr., 330

  Calvinism, 575

  Camp, Vincent de, 317

  Canterbury, Lord, 284

  Carlisle, Lord, 502

  Carlyle, on "Mathilde," 291; 573, 666

  Carolside, 519, 520, 521, 524

  Castlereagh, Lady, 631, 645, 657

  Cavendish, Miss Susan, 526

  Celeste, Mademoiselle, 559

  Cerito, 193, 211

  Chambers Brothers, "Vestiges of Creation" attributed to, 546

  Channing, 24;
    preaching, 28;
    anecdote of, 29;
    on slavery, 30, 180;
    sermon on sorrow, 187;
    letters from England, 355;
    death, 363;
    book, 376, 380, 419, 564

  Charlemont, Lady, 380

  Charlemont, Lord, 380

  Charles I., 660

  Charleston, 122

  Charlotte, Queen, 311

  Chester, Harry, 421

  Chesterfield, Lord, 439

  Child, Mrs. Lydia, 324, 338, 355

  Chopin, 193, 262, 264, 265

  Chorley, 52;
    his play, 165, 212, 241, 259, 269, 375;
    veneration for Dr. Follen, 420, 438, 447, 455;
    takes charge of papers, 460, 483, 492

  Chorley, Mrs., 221

  Churchill, Mr., 584

  Clairvoyance, "I see it, but I don't believe it," 229

  Clarendon, Lord, 640, 660

  Clayton, Captain, the highwayman, 317

  Clémentine, Princesse, 647

  Cobden, 640, 643

  Codrington, Sir Edward, 419, 421, 436

  Coleman, Mr., 437

  Coles, Sir Francis, 329

  Combe, Dr., 21, 354, 521

  Combe, Mr., 47;
    the "Constitution of Man," 102;
    thinks Mrs. Kemble improved, 162, 167, 194;
    magnetism, 230, 232, 252;
    on martyrdom, 326, 354, 459, 460, 530, 532, 539;
    his fanaticism, 540, 542;
    on "Vestiges of Creation," 543, 546;
    "dry humor," 597

  Combe, Mrs., 47, 102, 162, 194, 230, 252, 354, 525, 530, 532;
    her beauty, 539, 540, 542

  Cooper, James, 95

  Cooper, Mrs., 374

  Cork, Lady, 48, 52

  Correggio, 376

  Corsini, Prince, 644

  Coster, Mr., 353

  Cottin, Miss, 259, 279, 455, 591, 605

  Coutts, 283

  Coutts-Trotter, Miss, 574

  Craven, 502

  Cromwell, 660

  Crow, Mrs., her book, 230;
    her insanity, 232

  Cumberland, Duke of, 269

  Cunard, Mr., 383

  DACRE, Lady, 45;
    letters to, 57, 63, 76, 101, 142, 149, 160;
    letters to, 161, 175, 198, 248, 249, 280, 323;
    letters to, 356, 360, 361, 362;
    her advice, 363;
    letters to, 365, 366, 377, 378, 380, 381, 386, 392, 401, 414, 428,
      432, 438;
    her illness, 438;
    letters to, 488, 491, 494, 514;
    letters to, 525;
    invitation from, 548, 554, 622

  Dacre, Lord, 45;
    on contested elections, 183, 248, 250, 252, 281, 338, 356, 362, 378,
      380, 415;
    on war, 429, 438, 446, 640, 641, 643

  Dalhousie, Lord, 65

  Darner, Mrs. Dawson, 380, 519

  Dantan, 368

  Darien, 130

  Déjazet, 329, 342, 598, 599

  De Quincey, 415

  Dessauer, 209;
    Elle m'a compris! 212, 265, 326

  De Tocqueville, 209

  Dévy, Madame, 327, 334, 337

  Dickens, 107, 305, 318;
    his opinion of America, 359, 380

  Dietrichstein, Madame de, 487

  Disraeli. See Israeli, D'.

  Donne, William Bodham, 612

  Douro, Lady, 295

  Dryden, 376

  Dufferin, Lady, 502, 649

  Dumas, Alexandre, 337

  Duncombe, Thomas, 315

  Dundas, Mr., 281

  EDISTO, 127

  Egerton, Francis, 227, 248, 251, 272, 325, 329, 330, 334, 356;
    on Arnold, 448

  Egerton, Lady Francis, 162, 420, 446;
    on Arnold, 448

  Eliot, George, 50, 53

  Ellesmere, Lady, 45, 73, 244, 448, 629, 631

  Ellesmere, Lord, 45, 448, 501, 600, 601, 629, 631

  Ellis, Mr., 645

  Ellsler, Fanny, 191, 193, 194;
    Mrs. Grote befriends her, 210;
    her genius, 211;
    her child, 213, 241, 246, 372

  Empson, 381, 419

  Enclos, Ninon de l', 54

  Eresby, Lords Willoughby de, 304

  Essex, Lady, 436, 514

  Este, Mademoiselle d', 295, 303, 304;
    her character, 333; 335, 337;
    her claims, 338;
    her queen, 341;
    her marriage, 344

  Everett, Edward, 325, 381

  F., LETTER TO, 385

  Farquharson, 597

  Fay, Theodore, 48

  Fénélon, 564, 618

  Fergusson, Sir Adam, 527

  Fishing, "Fishing bery good fun, when de fish him bite," 146;
    American fish, 155

  Fitzhardinge, Lord, 310, 312

  Fitzhugh, Emily, 10;
    letters to, 12, 13, 55, 84, 133, 139, 145, 161, 308, 319, 373;
    letter to, 420;
    her marks, 430, 496, 508, 512, 600, 629

  Fitzhugh, Mr., 51;
    his illness, 177, 536

  Fitzhugh, Mrs., 51, 308, 319, 475, 477, 508, 535, 536, 589, 595;
    her health, 597;
    depression, 598

  Foley, Lord, 356

  Follen, Dr., his death, 180;
    his history and character, 182;
    sermon on, 187, 364, 419, 574

  Follen, Mrs., 364

  Follenius, Carl, 181

  Forbes, John, 160

  Forster, Mr. John, 496, 501

  Foster, a séance with, 235

  Fourier, 655

  Fowler, Dr., 271

  Fox, Miss, 281

  Francis, Lady, 221, 274, 276;
    presents Mrs. Kemble, 324; 325, 327, 349

  Francis, Lord, 276

  Frezzolini, 325

  Frost, Mr., 560

  Fuller, Margaret, 17

  Fullerton, Lady Georgiana, 541

  Furness, Mr., anti-slavery sermons, 388; 403, 629, 640, 648

  GARCIA, Pauline, 207

  Gaskell, Mrs., 568

  Gensius, 211

  Genz, Frederic von, 211

  George III., 311

  Georgia, condition of, 103;
    slavery in, 203;
    journal of residence in, 159, 203, 205

  Gibbon, 173

  Gibson, 193

  Gioberti, 653

  Glück, 213

  Goethe, Madame von, 3

  Goethe, Wolfgang von, 12, 15, 33, 77;
    "Wilhelm Meister," 589, 592, 663

  Good, the murderer, 310

  Gordon, Lady Lucy Duff, 576, 578, 590

  Gordon, Sir Alexander Duff, 578

  Grant, Sarah, 459

  Grant, William, 450

  Granville, Dr., 51

  Grazia, 51

  Green, Mr., 368

  Gregory, William, 231

  Gresset, 599

  Greville, Algernon, 298

  Greville, Charles, 61, 74;
    his character, 216;
    his "Memoirs," 217; 218, 226;
    at a séance, 235; 273, 274, 281, 283, 301;
    his mention of Queen Adelaide, 344; 360;
    letter to, 376; 381, 423, 431;
    on Arnold, 448;
    his book, 458, 461, 483;
    on a future life, 498, 499;
    character, 514; 549, 558;
    letter to the Times, 587;
    and Parliament, 590; 598;
    supposed the author of "Jane Eyre," 602, 603;
    writings on Ireland, 611; 615;
    on politics, 620; 629, 647, 649

  Greville, Henry, 239, 329, 335, 423, 436;
    on painting, 475, 483;
    goes to Manchester, 485, 487;
    as an amateur actor, 496, 501, 502;
    his criticism, 508;
    character, 514; 529, 541, 543;
    and Rachel, 548; 558, 600;
    his mania for playhouses, 602, 603;
    on readings, 615, 622, 624;
    house-furnishing, 629; 635, 647, 662, 666

  Greville, Lady Charlotte, 625, 647

  Grey, Countess, 528

  Grey, Lady, 228, 366, 402, 526, 554, 635, 640, 643

  Grey, Lord, 338, 516, 635

  Griffith, Mrs., 74

  Grisi, 48, 49;
    description of, 50; 211, 325, 377, 475

  Grote, George, 209, 218, 241, 373, 444;
    "History of Greece," 589;
    on politics, 620

  Grote, Mrs., a Grotesque passage, 208;
    her talents, 209;
    befriends Mlle. Ellsler, 210;
    Malbrook s'en va t'en guerre, 212;
    takes charge of Fanny Ellsler's child, 213;
    her opinion of d'Orsay, 213;
    her illness, 217;
    engrosses Jenny Lind, 217;
    her interest in politics, 218;
    "It is political," 219;
    her appearance, 219;
    language, 220;
    dress, 220;
    "the gentleman in the white muslin gown," 221; 241, 246, 351, 352,
      353, 373;
    beasterly wind, 373; 423, 424, 425, 427, 434, 444, 522;
    her sufferings, 611;
    her unusualness, 620;
    verses, 639

  Guercino, 376

  Guildford, Lord, 519

  Guizot, 649, 667

  Gunter, 373

  HALÉVY, 217

  Hall, Miss, 369, 374, 391

  Hallam, 65, 381

  Hallé, Charles, 265, 577, 579

  Hamilton, Miss, 308, 424

  Hamilton, Mr., 535

  Hamiltons, The Miss, 589

  Hampden, Dr., 619

  Hanmer, 653

  Hanover, King of, 269

  Happy Valley, a, 19

  Hardwicke, Lord, 621

  Harness, Rev. William, "taking it out in corns," 65; 90, 161, 164,
      296, 297;
    his character, 298; 352, 353, 373, 419, 548, 555, 611, 615, 626,
      629, 630, 657

  Hatherton, Lady, 48, 52

  Hawtrey, Dr., 563, 570

  Hawtrey, Stephen, 570

  Hayes, Bridget, 506, 507, 516, 531, 567, 605, 606, 611, 634

  Hayward, 21

  Hazlitt, 639

  Head, Sir Francis, 53

  Herbert, George, 566

  Hero, 567, 571, 593

  Hesse-Darmstadt, Duke of, 269

  Hibbard, Mr., 440

  Hibbard, Mrs., 440

  Holland, Dr., 423

  Holland House, 60

  Holland, Lady, at Rogers', 59;
    her jelly, 62;
    her temper, 63;
    travelling by land, 273; 430;
    her last days, 441;
    her will, 441

  Holland, Lord, 59, 60, 649

  Hook, Theodore, 398

  Horner, Francis, 379, 420, 573

  Howick, Lord, 460

  Hugo, Victor, 22, 501, 585

  Hume, 234

  Humphreys, Mrs., 535

  Hunt, Leigh, his play, 190

  INGLIS, Sir Robert, 381

  Insects, bugs, 33;
    bees, 35;
    ants, 35;
    fire-flies, 36;
    beetles, 36;
    flies, 36;
    mosquitoes, 37;
    spiders, 37;
    potato bugs, 37

  Invitation to Hayti, 569

  Irving, Edward, 21, 573

  Israeli, D', 643, 665, 666

  JAMESON, Mrs., letters to, 1, 15, 18, 47, 51, 74, 75, 83, 92, 94, 97,
      100, 103, 138, 146;
    her book, 151;
    letter to, 164;
    her book on Canada, 172;
    letters to, 190; 289, 291, 323;
    letters to, 412, 423, 429;
    a horrid story, 449;
    Adelaide Kemble's likeness, 450;
    Mrs. Siddons' Memoir, 450;
    her character, 454;
    Mrs. Siddons' Memoir, 459; 563;
    relations with Lady Byron, 577; 601, 614, 615

  Jay, Mr., his book, 185

  Jay, Mrs., 271

  Jeffrey, Sydney Smith on, 215; 380

  Jeffreys, 530, 553, 566

  Joachim, 579

  Joan of Arc, 396

  KEAN, Charles, 636

  Keeleys, 559

  Kemble, Adelaide, "Aunt Dall," 605

  Kemble, Adelaide, daughter of Charles, 47, 51, 59;
    pressed flowers, 60;
    going upon the stage, 87, 98;
    her genius, 99; 101, 139;
    first appearance, 146;
    in Turkey, 197;
    at Palermo, 199;
    first concert, 209; 211; 219;
    her success, 222, 223, 226, 227;
    at a séance, 235; 241;
    at Covent Garden, 248, 250;
    her first public performance, 259, 267;
    her success in London, 270;
    her character, 292, 306;
    "die Tine," 321; 323, 325;
    declines to sing at the Italian Opera-House, 325;
    in Dublin, 328; 330, 331, 332, 336;
    her engagement, 338, 346;
    her "Helen," 351; 353;
    her marriage, 354;
    sings "Norma" for the last time, 357; 361, 366, 367, 368, 373, 374;
    compared with other artists, 377; 418, 429, 444;
    her health, 452;
    song written by, 456; 462, 507, 521, 529;
    acquaintance with Mendelssohn, 544;
    American spirit of conformity, 549; 590;
    house in London, 600;
    her return, 621;
    her house, 628;
    letter from Italy, 643

  Kemble, Charles, farewell to the stage, 46; 48, 139, 143;
    vase presented to, 177;
    return to the stage, 196; 197;
    illness, 205;
    sympathetic theory of convalescence, 206; 208, 223, 252;
    losses by the United States Bank, 270; 294, 299, 304;
    resumes the management of Covent Garden, 309, 322, 361;
    his loss at Covent Garden, 365;
    his illness, 365, 367, 369; 371, 372, 373, 375, 418, 419, 421, 423,
      432, 433, 435, 443, 444, 450;
    debating the route, 455; 458;
    his deafness, 462;
    on the Continent, 472;
    gives up readings, 519;
    declines to read "Antigone," 614; 632;
    compared with Macready, 636; 653

  Kemble, Mrs. Charles, story of a miniature, 195;
     her acquaintance with Captain Clayton, 317

  Kemble, Frances Ann, on marriage, 1, 70;
    her first Fourth of July in America, 4;
    fresh butter, 6;
    her servants, 8;
    her journal, 11;
    double entry, 11;
    her portrait, 13, 85;
    portrait as Beatrice, 13;
    her opinion of slavery, 16;
    riding, 20;
    study of the Bible, 21, 24;
    treatise on slavery, 21;
    fear, 25;
    on emancipation, 29, 31;
    babies and authorship, 33;
    gardening, 33;
    bugs, 33;
    bees, 35;
    ants, 35;
    slavery, 35, 41, 185, 203;
    fire-flies, 36;
    beetles, 36;
    flies, 36;
    disappointment at not going South, 40;
    complexion, 42;
    voyage to England, 43;
    the death-vision, 44;
    London society, 45, 665;
    waiting for a vessel, 56;
    voyage to America, 67;
    on Christianity, 71;
    on members of the Convention, 73;
    her "English Tragedy," 72, 73, 103:
    disease an invention, 77;
    defence of Providence, 79;
    illness of her child, 82;
    on time, 84;
    scorpions, 88;
    birth of her child, 92;
    on dying, 92;
    on letter-writing, 95;
    on singularity, 98;
    death of her mother, 102;
    going to Georgia, 103;
    travelling with children, 105;
    "they always washes two at a time," 107;
    a North Carolina toilet, 112;
    on labor, 114;
    a night journey, 119;
    a day's rest, 120;
    the dread of singularity, 123;
    the Charleston negroes, 125;
    Margery's observations on Southerners, 126;
    incidents of the voyage to Savannah, 129;
    voyage to Darien, 130;
    the outer bound of creation, 130;
    welcome home, 131;
    a lively sense of benefits to come, 133;
    first visit to the sick house, 133;
    "O Lord a mercy! sure this is never I," 136;
    "What for you work, Missus?" 137;
    education of children, 143, 179;
    manifold avocations, 147;
    her house, 147;
    the Menai bridge, 148;
    reading prayers to the slaves, 148;
    Georgia journal, 159;
    the Stafford House appeal, 159;
    "A Fool's Errand," 160;
    Pharisaism of early risers, 161;
    a dumb child, 162;
    her "bumps," 162;
    her play, 165;
    the future life, 166, 498, 547;
    the teaching of experience, 168;
    Forester, 171;
    loneliness, 174;
    on sorrow, 187;
    beginning to die, 188;
    on reason in education, 189;
    on authorship, 190;
    on sponsorship, 195;
    jealous of her parts, 199;
    on steamships, 201;
    answering questions, 202;
    Georgia journal, its publication, 203;
    not allowed to return to Georgia, 205;
    English ignorance of slavery, 205;
    individual atmosphere, 207;
    declines to meet Mlle. Ellsler, 213;
    visits to Mrs. Grote, 209-221;
    on education, 221;
    on daguerreotypes, 222, 224, 225;
    a whirl of excitement, 226;
    mesmeric experience, 230-240;
    as Jezebel, 239;
    at Bannisters, 247;
    run away with, 251;
    a beautiful brute, 251;
    on lace-making, 254;
    travel in Germany, 255;
    at Ehrenbreitstein, 257;
    Schneider, 258;
    a happy woman, 274;
    exercise of agony, 279;
    answering letters, 283, 284;
    on sudden death, 286;
    Poor things--all of us! 287;
    on self-condemnation, 290;
    the horrors, 308;
    leaping in a carriage, 316;
    on difference of nationality, 319;
    her presentation, 320, 324;
    the spirit of martyrdom, 326;
    on dress, 327, 531;
    on earning money, 330;
    her return to America, 332;
    visits Queen Adelaide, 341;
    on married women's rights, 344, 422;
    sequel to "The Stranger," 345;
    her child's illness, 350;
    acting "The Hunchback," 349;
    her feeling toward America, 358;
    leaving England, 361;
    the secret of helping people, 375;
    receptions, 373; 379;
    sea-sickness, 381;
    a lawyer's bill, 385;
    on the condition of Ireland, 387;
    anti-slavery preaching, 388;
    at Yellow Springs, 388, 393;
    love, 397;
    consciously unconscious, 398;
    "The Memory of the Past," 399; 400;
    health, 401, 586;
    changes in England, 402;
    the nonsense of equality, 405;
    a volume of poems, 406;
    lodging-house insecurity, 408;
    Duchess of Ormond, 409;
    Icarus, 412;
    her consolations, 414;
    studying mathematics, 415;
    her favorite horse, 417;
    return to England, 418;
    stability of things spiritual, 421;
    requests for her influence, 426;
    advice, 427;
    on beauty, 433;
    "Beaver hats," 435;
    the Church service, 442;
    going to Italy, 445;
    deathbed utterances, 447;
    her idea of Eve, 451;
    her verses, 452;
    Genesis, 453;
    nervousness, 455;
    "content," 456;
    truth to be spoken, 456;
    journey to Italy, 457, 458;
    adversity, 461;
    her journal, 463;
    Rome, 463;
    living below pitch, 468;
    amusement, 469;
    lies, 471;
    equality between the sexes, 472;
    her journal, 473;
    returns to the stage, 474;
    at the dentist's, 478;
    laughter, 472;
    her journal, Manchester, 480;
    engagement in Dublin, 483;
    her play, 483;
    conversation versus correspondence, 486;
    appearance at Manchester, 488;
    at Birmingham, 494;
    refused permission to act for charity, 497;
    appearance at Liverpool, 499;
    on reading, 505;
    on government, 506;
    "Hints to Religion," 509;
    at Bath, 509;
    on consistency, 516;
    method of reading Shakespeare, 534;
    on phrenology, 537; on
    "Vestiges of Creation," 543;
    the Shakespearian celebration, 545;
    on "Vestiges of Creation," 546;
    "Psyche," 548;
    lionizing an American, 549;
    the ocean, 550;
    Shakespeare, 552;
    immortality, 552;
    taking ether, 553;
    an unfortunate, 555;
    something that could not lie, 557;
    a broken finger, 557;
    "A Year of Consolation," 559;
    a little outcast, 559;
    night, 562;
    reading at Eton, 563;
    partial immortality, 564, 593;
    the idea of God, 564;
    human and divine goodness, 566;
    dogmanity, 567;
    "Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time," 568;
    "Realities," 568;
    emancipation and freedom, 569;
    at Eton, 570;
    freedom a protection, 574;
    Calvinism, 575;
    at Manchester--a gratuity, 578;
    comments on readings, 579;
    death of the Emperor of Russia, 580;
    at Oxford, 582;
    "What things these bodies are," 583;
    at Bath, 585;
    "an antidote to enthusiasm," 586;
    reverence, 587;
    officers of charities, 591; 593;
    burial money, 596;
    proselyting, 597;
    "Vanity Fair," 601;
    love and self-love, 602;
    improvement in manners, 604;
    economy, 606;
    at Yarmouth, 605;
    the aristocratic principle, 608;
    cleverness versus judgment, 609;
    reading "Antigone," 614;
    morality and politics, 616;
    a beautiful woman, 617;
    tact and sincerity, 618;
    genius and helplessness, 623;
    a ghost of a declaration, 627;
    constancy, 627;
    What is truth? 628;
    "fortitude and similarity," 630;
    reading Shakespeare, 632;
    playing with Macready, 637;
    future punishment, 645;
    in Othello, 645;
    on the French Revolution, 47;
    as Ophelia, 648;
    political changes in England, 650;
    forms of government, 655;
    Fourierism, 655;
    subdivision of land, 656;
    a first reading, 657;
    a benefit for young actors, 656, 657, 658;
    the political situation, 659;
    the "Star Inn," 661;
    the great Chartist meeting, 667;
    return to America, 667;
    success of readings, 667

  Kemble, Henry, 487, 493

  Kemble, Mrs. John, Sr., 195, 345

  Kemble, John, censorship given to, 183;
    editorship of the Review, 183; 195, 240, 291, 331, 337, 424;
    on Arnold, 431;
    Lady Holland's bequest, 441;
    his character, 481;
    his book, 482; 508, 585, 612, 613, 624

  Kemble, Natalia, 291

  Kenyon, 447

  King, Lady Dashwood, 219

  Kinglake, 436

  King's Chapel, 28

  Kingsbury, Mr., 602

  Kingsley, Charles, 37

  Kitchener, Dr., 9

  Klopstock, 153, 283

  Knowles, Mr., 475, 489

  Knowles, Sheridan, 329

  Kock, Paul de, 298, 300, 302

  Kotzebue, 345

  LABLACHE, 217

  Labouchère, Mr., 501

  Lamartine, 35, 658

  Lamb, Charles, 283

  Landseer, 63, 617

  Lane, 225, 240, 653

  Lansdowne, Lady, 45, 54, 270, 356, 664

  Lansdowne, Lord, 45, 54, 270, 275, 277, 282, 296, 298, 662, 665

  Lawrence, 439

  Leader, 209

  Legget, 186

  Leighton, Sir Frederick, 239

  Leinster, Duke of, 333

  Lenox, no poor in, 7;
    no beer in, 7;
    laborers in, 8;
    its scenery, 100, 158

  Lewis, Dr., his attempt to magnetize, 231

  Lexington, The, burning of, 187

  Liberalism, 48

  Liebig, 504, 508, 510

  Liège, 253

  Liéven, Madame de, 649

  Lincoln, Abraham, 160

  Lind, Jenny, 209;
    engrossed by Mrs. Grote, 217; 444, 518, 519, 522

  Lindsay, Lady Charlotte, 45, 62, 295, 356, 373, 419, 518

  Liquor, 7, note.

  Liston, 206, 590, 592, 662

  Liszt, 209, 241, 259;
    his tour in Germany, 261;
    his seven-leagued-boot style, 262;
    his career, 263;
    jealousy of Thalberg, 264; 269, 321

  Lockhart, 419

  London Assurance, 223

  London, riots in, 651, 652, 667

  London society, 45, 48, 665

  Londonderry, Lady, 320, 323, 340

  Longfellow, Fanny, 553

  Longfellow, H. W., 18, 61

  Longfellow, Mrs., 101, 228

  Louis Napoleon, 667

  Louis Philippe, 647, 666

  Lovelace, Lady, 165

  Lumley, 325

  Luzzy, Mademoiselle de, 520

  MACAULAY, 65, 273, 281;
    his discourse, 282; 371

  Macdonald, Sir John, 243

  Mackenzie, 370, 372

  Mackintosh, Mrs. Robert, 18, 101

  Mackintosh, Sir James, 500

  Macready, 103, 143, 172, 407, 409, 501, 556, 595, 619, 629, 631;
    his manners, 635;
    his character, 636;
    his stage temper, 637;
    in Macbeth, 638;
    his violence, 642, 648;
    his selfishness, 644;
    in Othello, 645, 646;
    in Hamlet, 651

  Macready, Mrs., 423

  Maddox, 621, 622, 633, 629, 630, 642

  Magnetism, 228-240

  Mair, Lizzie, 424, 529, 530, 531, 533

  Mair, Major, 525, 531;
    solitary confinement, 533

  Malibran, 48, 87, 100, 207, 267, 377

  Malkin, Arthur, 500, 541

  Manzoni, "Ode to Napoleon," 571

  Marcet, Mrs., 510

  Margery, her successor, 178;
    her proselyting spirit, 178;
    her illness, 410

  Mario, discharged, 325

  Marlowe, 21

  Marryatt, 176

  Martineau, Miss, 3;
    in Philadelphia, 10; 16;
    her books, 52;
    "Deerbrook," 53, 65;
    her book on America, 80; 503, 50, 505

  Mason, Charles, 497, 500, 502, 508, 510, 511, 514, 515

  Masson, Miss, 373

  Maulay, Lord de, 514

  Maurice, 573

  Maxse, "Go along Maxse," 315

  Mays, Dr., 503

  Mease, Dr., 13

  Melbourne, Lord, 448

  Melgund, Lady, 519

  Mendelssohn, 209, 210, 262, 265, 375;
    his death, 543, 544; 573;
    his "Antigone," 613; 639

  Mercadante, 293

  Merimée, 585

  Mesmerism, 228-240

  Metternich, 649, 652, 659

  Metternich, Madame de, 264

  Millevoye, 585

  Milman, 419, 427, 442, 666

  Milman, Mrs., "You know one never means what one says," 442; 666

  Milnes, Monckton, 434, 447, 666

  Mitchell, Mr., 519;
    reading Shakespeare, 534; 613, 615, 618, 634;
    price of readings, 661

  Mitchell, Mrs., 513, 519, 520, 521;
    character, 522; 527;
    opinions, 527;
    children, 529;
    dress, 531; 536, 539, 600, 602, 618, 619

  Molesworth, Sir William, 209

  Montague, Mr. and Mrs. Basil, 52, 521

  Montez, Lola, 631

  Moody, surrenders his watch, 317

  Moore, 271, 273;
    "dat little dentleman," 277; 281

  Mordaunt, Miss, 555

  Morier, 589

  Morley, Lady, 45, 63, 65, 66;
    bereavements, 554;
    truth-speaking, 554;
    "a mermaid," 554;
    her predecessor, 555;
    shows her house, 555

  Morley, Lord, 555

  Morpeth, Lord, 305, 318, 359, 401

  Moscheles, 262, 265

  Mott, Lucretia, 162, 307

  Moxon, Edward, 477, 479, 483

  Mozart, 264, 306

  Mulliner, Mrs., 529, 530, 532, 553, 571, 572

  Muloch, Miss, 574

  Murray, Charles, 162

  Murray, Lady Augusta, 338

  Murray, Mr., 530

  Muskau, Prince Puckler, 608

  Mussy, Dr. Gueneau de, 501

  NAPLES, King of, 644

  Nemours, Duc de, 647

  Nemours, Duchess de, 647

  Nisbett, Mrs., 555

  Normanby, Lady, 647

  Normanby, Lord, 222, 284

  Norton, Mrs. Charles, 169

  Novello, Clara, 377

  O'CONNELL, 302

  Orleans, Duchesse d', 647

  O'Sullivan, John, 401, 410, 427, 432

  O'Sullivan, Mrs., 423

  PAHLEN, Count, 666

  Palmerston, Lady, Lady Holland's bequest, 442

  Panizzi, 371

  Parker, Theodore, 568

  Pasta, 48, 49, 50, 87, 100, 261, 377, 631

  Paton, Miss, 377

  Patterson, Mary, 459

  Peel, Sir Robert, 305, 460, 641

  Persiani, 207

  Philadelphia, Riots in, 412, 416

  Philips, Secretary, 520

  Pigott, Dick, 240

  Planchette, 236-238

  Potocki, Alfred, 485, 487, 635, 652, 653

  Prandi, 620

  Praslin, Duc de, 520

  Praslin, Duchesse de, 519

  Praslin, Madame de, 630

  Prescott, 172

  Procter, Adelaide, 577

  Procters, 52, 227, 373, 434, 435, 436, 447, 455, 456, 460, 521, 577

  Prussia, King of, 295, 296

  Public Schools in England, 276

  Pulaski, The, loss of, 95

  QUINCEY, De. See De Quincey.

  RACHEL, 50, 228, 241;
    her appearance, 243;
    her genius, 244;
    her tenderness, 246, 518, 548

  Rackeman, Frederick, 193

  Radley, Mr., 496

  Rainsforth, Miss, 330

  Raphael, his "Eve," 451

  Reeve, Henry, 447

  Revel, Count Adrien de, 521, 527, 528

  Revel, Emily de, 521

  Richmond, 609

  Richmond, Duchess of, 303, 339

  Richter, 228

  Ristori, 246

  Ritchie, Mrs., 626

  Roberts, 649

  Roberts, Miss, 581

  Robertson, 562

  Rocca, 345

  Roebuck, 209

  Rogers, 45, 58, 59;
   "the kindest heart and the unkindest tongue," 65;
   "young poetry," 66;
    visits Mrs. Grote, his sarcastic temper, 213;
   "Publish it!" 215; 222, 271, 273;
    lines by, 277; 281;
   "What I was saying will keep!" 281; 373, 381, 425, 427;
    much altered, 429;
    on Arnold, 431; 433;
    reading Sydney Smith's letters, 434; 436;
    on Lady Holland, 441; 444, 460;
    his generosity, 478;
    loss of memory, 554; 615

  Roman Reforms, 542

  Romilly, Edward, 510

  Romilly, Sir Samuel, 192

  Ros, Lord de, cheats at cards, 73

  Rossini, 378

  Rothschild, Baroness Louis, 281

  Rubinstein, 262

  Russell, Lord John, Lady Holland's bequest, 441, 460, 665

  Russia, Emperor of, 580

  Ruthven, Lady, 531

  Rutland, Duke of, 281, 300, 319, 338, 340

  SALE, Lady, 64

  Salisbury, Lord, 273

  Salvini, 631

  Sand, George, 291, 300, 449, 585

  Sandon, Lord, 444

  Saunders, his miniature from memory, 194

  Savannah, 129

  Savonarola, 326

  Scarborough, Lord, character of, 440

  Schiller, 396, 624

  Schroeder-Devrient, 100

  Schubert, 264

  Scott, John Alexander, 572, 573, 574, 577;
   "You are Theseus," 579

  Sedgwick, Catherine, 11, 22, 32, 47, 74, 91, 92, 101, 103, 104, 146;
    visits England, 149, 150, 154, 162; 188, 200, 228;
    her book, 253; 255, 266, 271, 353;
    letter from, 363;
    her visit to an asylum, 364;
    letter from, 370; 470, 491, 505

  Sedgwick, Charles, 505, 567, 654

  Sedgwick, Elizabeth (Mrs. Charles), 151, 172, 185, 309, 324, 338, 355,
      383, 589, 654

  Sedgwick, Theodore, letters to, 168, 185, 192; 270;
    letters to, 304, 318, 353, 358, 370, 371, 392, 395, 399, 400, 404,
      406, 407, 410, 659

  Sedgwicks, 154, 161, 198, 200, 407, 423, 520, 548

  Senior, William Nassau, 216, 218;
    his journal, 219; 443, 446

  Sévigné, Madame de, 61

  Seymour, Captain, 329, 349

  Shaftesbury, Lord, 159

  Shakers, The, 19

  Siddons, Cecilia, 47

  Siddons, George, 335, 455

  Siddons, Harry, 450

  Siddons, Mrs. Harry, 233;
    memoir of, 450, 454, 459; 525

  Siddons, Mrs. Sarah, 55, 331

  Slavery, 16, 21;
    plan of emancipation, 29, 31;
    pecuniary aspect of, 140;
    a slave's burial, 140;
    the slaves' sense of their condition, 141;
    discussions on, 144;
    in Georgia, 203;
    English ignorance of, 205

  Smith, Adam, 597

  Smith, Bobus, 430

  Smith, Dr., 55

  Smith, Gerrit, 307

  Smith, Sydney, 35, 45;
    the "poticary," 53; 58, 59;
    his drollery, 63;
    "as a canon should live," 64;
    sale by auction, 64;
    the "bore contradictor," 65;
    his dream, 65;
    the "departed" poet, 67; 176, 208, 209;
    Grota, 213;
    his letters, 214;
    Jeffrey's visit to, 215;
    his dissimilar son, 215;
    it isn't the Rogers, 215; 220, 240, 282, 323, 325, 334, 379,
      380, 381;
    his petition, 391; 409;
    on Horner, 420;
    his death, 430;
    on Rogers, 434;
    his daughter, 440;
    "Gooseberry," 553; 573

  Smith, Wyndham, the "Assassin," 215;
    Nebuchadnezzar, 216

  Somerville, Mrs., 88, 472

  Sontag, 217, 377

  Staël, Madame de, 79, 345

  Stafford, Marquis of, 276

  Stage, The, its influence, 48

  Stanley, Dean, 444, 619, 629, 640, 648, 653

  Steamships, 89

  Ste. Beuve, 585

  Stephens, 302

  Stepney, Lady, 380

  St. Leger, Barry, 295, 521

  St. Leger, Harriet, letters to, 8, 12, 20; 22;
    letters to, 23, 26, 29, 31, 33, 38, 40, 46, 54, 56, 67, 69, 71, 78,
      81, 85, 89, 92, 95, 99, 102, 104, 119, 135, 143, 147, 150, 152, 153,
      154, 158, 162, 166, 169, 170, 173, 177, 180, 183, 188, 192, 194,
      196, 197, 200, 201, 202, 206, 208, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, 226,
      240, 242, 243, 247, 248, 249, 252, 253, 255, 266, 268;
    in London, 270;
    letters to, 271, 274, 277, 280, 282, 284, 288, 290, 292, 294, 296,
      299, 300, 302, 306, 307, 319, 322, 324, 327, 330, 332, 335, 336,
      344, 348, 350, 352;
    visits Mrs. Kemble, 354;
    letters to, 354, 356, 367, 368, 369, 372, 374, 379, 381, 383, 387,
      388, 398, 403, 407, 408, 414, 416, 421, 422, 424, 426, 429, 433,
      434, 435, 436, 438, 439, 441, 443, 445, 449, 450, 452, 453, 455,
      456, 459, 460, 461, 462, 465, 468, 472, 475;
    her flagellatory recipe, 475;
    her absurdity, 476;
    her reasonableness, 476;
    letters to, 478, 481, 482, 484, 485, 489, 492, 493, 495, 499, 503,
      504, 507, 511, 512, 515, 516, 518, 521, 526, 527, 528, 530, 532,
      533, 535, 536, 539, 540, 541, 543, 544, 548, 550, 553, 556, 558,
      563, 566, 570, 572, 573, 575, 580, 581, 582, 583, 585, 587, 589,
      591, 592, 593, 595, 596, 598, 600, 601, 606, 607, 610, 613, 616,
      617, 619, 620, 621, 622, 623, 624, 627, 629, 634, 642, 643, 646,
      648, 651, 652, 656, 661, 664

  Stowe, Mrs. Beecher, 159

  Strangford, Lord, 283

  St. Simon's Island, 145, 152, 155;
    houses on, 156

  Stuart, Mary, 520

  Sullivan, Miss Barbarina, 525

  Sullivan, Mrs., her illness, 142;
    her death, 150

  Sullivan, Rev. Frederick, 392

  Sully, 13, 80, 85, 92;
    the queen's picture, 139

  Sumner, Charles, 423, 428, 430

  Sussex, Duke of, 338

  Sutherland, Duchess of, 159;
    concert at her house, 241; 335, 342, 346

  Swinton, Mr., 657, 666

  TAGLIONI, Maria, 193, 211

  Taglioni, Marie, niece of above, 642

  Talfourd, Judge, 35, 443

  Talma, 349

  Tankerville, Lady, 60

  Taunton, Lord, 501

  Taylor, Colonel, 468, 582

  Taylor, Jeremy, 21

  Taylor, Mrs., 10

  Taylor, Mrs. Tom, 646

  Thackeray, Annie, 626

  Thackeray, Mary Anne, 227, 240, 259, 267, 563

  Thackeray. William M., 159, 624;
    his first lecture, 625;
    the daughter next the father, 626;
    his works, 627;
    a comical story, 665

  Thalberg, 209, 262;
    patronized by Madame de Metternich, 264;
    compared with Liszt, 265

  Titchfield, Lord, 367, 368, 381

  Tocqueville, De. See De Tocqueville.

  Toryism, 48

  Townsend, C. H., 228

  Trelawney, 4, 86, 209, 227

  Truro, Lord Chancellor, 344

  Twiss, Amelia, 438

  Twiss, Horace, 45, 366

  UNGHER, Madame, 293

  United States Bank, 270, 289, 299

  VALLETORT, Lady, 54

  Van Buren, 186;
    his reëlection, 198

  Viardot, Madame, 209

  Victoria, Queen, 52;
    her first appearance before Parliament, 54;
    her coronation, 98; 296, 297, 301;
    presentation to, 319, 324, 327, 341

  Viry, Count Charles de, 521

  Viry, Emily de, 513, 521, 526, 527, 529

  WAELCKER, 182, 219

  Wagner, 264

  Wallack, James, 489

  Warren, Mr., 563

  Weber, 264

  Webster, 392, 621

  Wellington, Duke of, 295, 297, 299, 301, 549

  Westmacott, 273, 281, 360

  Westmoreland, Lady, 297, 301

  Whately, Archbishop, his book, 276;
    278, 431

  Whewell, Dr., 329

  Whewell, Mrs., 329

  William, King, 52

  Willoughby, Lady, 303

  Willoughby, Lord, 339

  Wilmington, 120

  Wilson, Dr., 206, 459

  Wilson, Dorothy, 22;
    letter to, 25; 30, 38;
    her illness, 180, 189;
    improved health, 197; 200;
    letters to, 429, 432; 523;
    letters to, 580, 605

  Wilson, Fanny, 600, 602

  Wilson, Horace, 301;
    declines to act, 329;
    opinion of "The Stranger," 346; 349, 356, 410, 455, 591, 605

  Wilton, Lord, 487

  Winchelsea, Countess of, 339

  Winchelsea, Lady, 303

  Winchelsea, Lord, 303

  Woman's Rights, 17

  Woman's Suffrage, 183

  Women, their health, 23;
    their education, 25

  Wordsworth, 66

  YORKE, Captain, 622

  Young, Charles, 227, 243, 381, 636

    In UNIFORM STYLE.

    RECORDS OF A GIRLHOOD.
    RECORDS OF LATER LIFE.

    -->Slips for Librarians to paste on Catalogue Cards.

    N. B.--Take out carefully, leaving about quarter of an inch at the
    back. To do otherwise would, in some cases, release other leaves.

    KEMBLE, FRANCES ANN. Large 12mo, pp. 676.

    AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

The following typographical errors have been corrected:

  no lady in Philadelphia who then had such an attendant
    (changed from atttendant)

  and carefully tended suburban district
    (changed from surburban)

  Lord and Lady Lansdowne
    (changed from Landsdowne)

  equipments of the northern villages
    (changed from equpiments)

  At the mouth of the Altamaha
    (changed from the the mouth)

  dark-leaved, wide-spreading oaks
    (changed from wide-speading)

  moulder away for want of use
    (changed from waut)

   the neighborhood of Burnham Beeches
    (changed from Burnam)

  how long do you think it took Nebuchadnezzar
    (changed from thing)

  I know your sister is vastly clever
    (changed from vasly)

  my determination to defeat his endeavor
    (changed from endeaver)

  the recollection of the last happy days I spent here
    (changed from recollectien)

  his marvellous facility and strength
    (changed from facilty)

   what the French call saissant
    (changed from saisssant)

  saluting the approach of some greatness or other
    (changed from appoach)

  letters will occasionally come to heaven
    (changed from occasionly)

  that vague love of excitement
    (changed from excitemen)

  working heart's ease into Emily's canvas
    (changed from heart'seas)

  abused by the Opposition, but that is of course
    (changed from couse)

  about six hours
    (changed from abour)

  and of course he persevered
    (changed from coure)

  is a frequent speculation with me
    (changed from ma)

  men are capable of recognizing
    (changed from ment)

  To-morrow, at three o'clock
    (changed from To morrow)

  I think I have really done my duty
    (changed from thing)

  all their time to mere amusement
  (changed from amusememt)

  deprecate our meeting to part again
    (changed from out)

  I take it there is nothing
    (changed from their)

  kept her in a state of extreme expectation
    (changed from expectatation)

  the requisite number of quarterings
    (changed from requsite)

  I really believe he intended to do, and thought he did.]
    (closing square bracket added)

The following were changed in the index for consistency with the main text:

  Buccleuch, Duchess of
    (changed from Buccleugh)

  Crow, Mrs., her book
    (changed from Crowe)

  her opinion of d'Orsay
    (changed from D'Orsay)

  deathbed utterances
    (changed from death-bed)

  "Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time,"
    (changed from Natur-hath)

   Liéven, Madame de
    (changed from Lièven)

  Mussy, Dr. Gueneau de
    (changed from Musseau)

  Normanby, Lord
    (changed from Normanbury)

  Whately, Archbishop, his book
    (changed from Whateley)

No changes have been made to the following:

  if you allude to the mechanical process of caligraphy
    (possible error for calligraphy)

  Lamartine's "Pélérinage"
    (possible error for Pèlerinage)

  a gipsy complexion doesn't signify
    (possible error for gypsy)

  a sort of ecstacy of imbecility
    (possible error for ecstasy)

  Je suis méchante, ma chére
    (possible error for chère)

  et voila!
    (possible error for voilà)

  Malbrook s'en vat' en guerre
    (possible error for va t'en or va-t-en)

  de corps et a'âne
    (possible error for d'âme)

  the attack itself is not matter of doubt
    (possible error for not a)

  Balzac's "Récherche de l'Absolu,"
    (possible error for Recherche)

  Rome, Trinita dei Monti.
    (possible error for Trinità)

  as the French say, à peds joints
    (possible error for pieds)

  stay some days with her at Soltram
    (possible error for Saltram)

  (or rather vice versa)
    (possible error for versâ)

  à la Voltaire
    (possible error for là)

  "mi sois-cerelbero."
    (possible error for mi sviscererebbe)

  she gave the blank verse so naturally
    (possible error for blank-verse)
}

