ST. NICHOLAS.

VOL. V. SEPTEMBER, 1878. No. 11.

[Copyright, 1878, by Scribner & Co.]

FERN-SEED.

BY CELIA THAXTER.

  She filled her shoes with fern-seed,
    This foolish little Nell,
  And in the summer sunshine
    Went dancing down the dell.
  For whoso treads on fern-seed,--
    So fairy stories tell,--
  Becomes invisible at once,
    So potent is its spell.
  A frog mused by the brook-side:
    "Can you see me!" she cried;
  He leaped across the water,
    A flying leap and wide.
  "Oh, that's because I asked him!
    I must not speak," she thought,
  And skipping o'er the meadow
    The shady wood she sought.
  The squirrel chattered on the bough,
    Nor noticed her at all,
  The birds sang high, the birds sang low,
    With many a cry and call.
  The rabbit nibbled in the grass,
    The snake basked in the sun,
  The butterflies, like floating flowers,
    Wavered and gleamed and shone.
  The spider in his hammock swung,
    The gay grasshoppers danced;
  And now and then a cricket sung,
    And shining beetles glanced.
  'Twas all because the pretty child
    So softly, softly trod,--
  You could not hear a foot-fall
    Upon the yielding sod.
  But she was filled with such delight--
    This foolish little Nell!
  And with her fern-seed laden shoes,
    Danced back across the dell.
  "I'll find my mother now," she thought,
    "What fun 't will be to call
  'Mamma! mamma!' while she can see
    No little girl at all!"
  She peeped in through the window,
    Mamma sat in a dream:
  About the quiet, sun-steeped house
    All things asleep did seem.
  She stept across the threshold;
    So lightly had she crept,
  The dog upon the mat lay still,
    And still the kitty slept.
  Patient beside her mother's knee
    To try her wondrous spell
  Waiting she stood, till all at once,
    Waking, mamma cried "Nell!
  Where have you been? Why do you gaze
    At me with such strange eyes?"
  "But can you see me, mother dear?"
    Poor Nelly faltering cries.
  "See you? Why not, my little girl?
    Why should mamma be blind?"
  And little Nell unties her shoes,
    With fairy fern-seed lined,
  And tosses up into the air
    A little powdery cloud,
  And frowns upon it as it falls,
    And murmurs half aloud,
  "It wasn't true, a word of it,
    About the magic spell!
  I never will believe again
    What fairy stories tell!"

MACKEREL-FISHING.

BY ROBERT ARNOLD.

When I was a boy, I lived on the rugged coast of New England. The sea abounded in cod, hake,
mackerel, and many other kinds of fish. The mackerel came in "schools" in late summer, and
sometimes were very plentiful. One day, my uncle James determined to go after some of these
fish, with his son George, and invited me to go with them. We were to start before day-break
the next morning. I went to bed that night with an impatient heart, and it was a long time
before I could go to sleep. After I did get asleep, I dreamed of the whale that swallowed Jonah,
and all kinds of fishes, big and little. I was awakened by somebody calling, in a very loud
voice, "Robert! Robert!" I jumped out of bed, with my eyes not more than half opened, and fell
over the chair on which I had put my clothes. This made me open my eyes, and I soon realized
that the voice proceeded from my cousin George, who had come to arouse me for the fishing-voyage.

I dressed as quickly as possible, and went downstairs. All was quiet in the house except the
old clock ticking in the kitchen. I went out-of-doors and found the stars still shining. It
was half-past three o'clock in the morning. There was no sign of daylight, and even the cocks
had not begun to crow. In the darkness I espied George, who said, "Come, it is time to start.
Father is waiting for you."

We walked across the fields to my uncle's house. Taking each a basket and knife, we began our
journey, and soon entered the pine-woods. As we walked along in the darkness, we could scarcely
see each other or the path. The wind was sighing mournfully among the tree-tops, and, as we
gazed upward, we could see the stars twinkling in the clear sky.

We soon emerged from the forest, and came to a sandy plain. Before us was the ocean, just discernible.
There were two or three lights, belonging to vessels that were anchored near the shore. We
could see the waves and hear their murmur, as they broke gently upon the shore. A soft breeze
was blowing from the west, and the sea was almost as smooth as a pond.

When we reached the beach, we found that it was low water. The boat was at high-water mark.
What should we do? We did as the fishermen in that region always do in the same circumstances--took
two rollers, perhaps six inches in diameter, lifted the bow of the boat, put one of the rollers
under it, and the other upon the sand about eight feet in front of it. We then pushed the boat
until it reached the second roller, and rolled it upon that until the other was left behind.
Then the first was put in front of the boat, and so we kept on until our craft reached the
water. Uncle James and George took the oars, and I sat in the stern, with the tiller in my
hand, to steer.

We got out over the breakers without difficulty, and rowed toward the fishing-ground. It is
queer that fishermen call the place where they fish, "the ground," but that is only one of
the many queer things that they do. By this time, daylight had come. The eastern sky was gorgeous
with purple and red, and hues that no mortal can describe. Soon a red arc appeared, and then
the whole glorious sun, looking more grand and beautiful than can be thought of by one who
has never seen the sun rise over the sea.

"How glorious!" I exclaimed, impulsively.

"Yes; it is a first-rate morning for fishing," said my uncle, whose mind was evidently upon
business, and not upon the beauties of nature.

After rowing about three miles, we stopped, and prepared for fishing. Each of us had two lines,
about twenty feet long. The hooks were about as big as large trout-hooks. Pewter had been run
around the upper part of them, so that "sinkers" were not required. The pewter answered a double
purpose; it did duty as a sinker, and, being bright, attracted the notice of the fish. Uncle
James had brought with him some clams, which we cut from their shells and put on the hooks.
We threw in our lines and waited for a bite. We did not wait long, for, in less than a minute,
George cried out, in the most excited manner, "There's a fish on my hook!"

"Pull, then!" shouted his father.

He was too agitated to pull at first, but, at length, managed to haul in his line, and, behold,
a slender fish, about eight inches long, showing all the colors of the rainbow, as he held
it up in the morning sun! It was our first mackerel. While admiring George's prize, I suddenly
became aware of a lively tug at one of my own lines. I pulled it in, and found that I had caught
a fish just like the other, only a little larger. No sooner had I taken it from the hook than
my other line was violently jerked. I hauled it in hurriedly, and on the end of it was--not
a mackerel, but a small, brown fish, with a big head and an enormous mouth. I was about to
take it from the hook when my uncle called, "Look out!" He seized it, and showed me the long,
needle-like projections on its back, with which, but for his interference, my hand might have
been badly wounded. This unwelcome visitor was a sculpin. Sculpins are very numerous in this
region.

Uncle James explained how I happened to catch one of them. They swim at a much greater depth
than mackerel usually do, and, while I was busy with one line, the other had sunk some twelve
or fifteen feet down where the sculpins dwelt.

When mackerel are inclined to take the bait, they are usually close to the surface of the water.
They began now to bite with the greatest eagerness, and gave us all the work that we could
do. As soon as I had taken a fish from one line, the other demanded my attention. I did not
have to wait for a bite. Indeed, as soon as the hook was thrown into the water, several mackerel
would dart for it. As George said, they were very anxious to be caught. This was very different
from my previous experience in fishing for trout in the little brooks near my home. I used
to fish all day and not get more than two or three trout, and often I would not get one. Those
that I did catch were not more than four or five inches long. I guess some of my boy readers
have had the same experience.

The only drawback was baiting the hook whenever a fish was taken from it. Uncle James soon
remedied this difficulty. He cut from the under side of a dead mackerel six thin pieces, about
half an inch in diameter, and gave each of us two. We put them on our hooks, and they served
for bait a long time. When they were gone, we put on more of the same kind. Mackerel will bite
at any very small object, almost, that they can see, and sometimes fishermen fasten a small
silver coin to their hooks, which will do duty as bait for days. They wish to catch as many
fish as they possibly can, while they are biting, for mackerel are very notional. Sometimes
they will bite so fast as to tire their captors, and, ten minutes after, not one can be felt
or seen. Usually, they can be caught best in the morning and toward evening. I suppose they
have but two meals a day, breakfast and supper, going without their dinner. In this respect,
they resemble trout and many other kinds of fish.

They are caught in great numbers off the coast of Maine and Massachusetts in the months of
August and September. Hundreds of schooners, large and small, and thousands of men and boys
are employed in the business. Standing upon the shore, near Portland, and looking out upon
the Atlantic, on a bright summer's day, you can sometimes see more white, glistening sails
of "mackerel-catchers" than you can count. At the wharves of every little village on the sea-shore,
or on a river near the shore, boats and fishermen abound. Of late years, immense nets or "seines"
have been used, and often, by means of them, enormous quantities of fish have been secured
in one haul. The season is short, but most of the fishermen, before the mackerel come and after
they go, engage in fishing for cod and hake, which are plentiful also. Mackerel-catching has
its joys, but it also has its sorrows and uncertainties. One vessel may have excellent luck
while another may be very unfortunate. In short, those engaged in the pursuit of mackerel have
to content themselves with "fishermen's luck."

While we were busily fishing, George called my attention to a dark fin, projecting a few inches
above the water, and gradually approaching the boat with a peculiar wavy motion. Just before
reaching us it sank out of sight. I cast an inquiring glance at my cousin, who said, in a low
tone of voice, "A shark!" A feeling of wonder and dread came over me, and doubtless showed
itself in my face, for my uncle said, in an assuring voice, "He will not harm us."

The mackerel stopped biting all at once. Our fishing was over. It was now about ten o'clock,
and the sun had become warm. Half a mile from us was a small island, with a plenty of grass
and a few trees, but no houses. Uncle James proposed that we should row to it, which we gladly
did. Its shores were steep and rocky, and we found much difficulty in landing; but at last
we got ashore and pulled the boat up after us. Among the rocks we found a quantity of drift-wood;
we gathered some, and built a fire. Uncle James produced some bread and crackers from his basket,
and, after roasting some of the nice, fat mackerel on sharp sticks before the fire, we sat
down to what seemed to us a delicious breakfast. We were in excellent spirits, and George and
I cracked jokes and laughed to our hearts' content. After our hunger had been satisfied, we
wandered over the island, which we christened Mackerel Island, and, sitting upon a high cliff,
watched the seals as they bobbed their heads out of the water, and turned their intelligent,
dog-like faces, with visible curiosity, toward us. They did not seem to be at all afraid, for
they swam close to the rock upon which we sat. We whistled, and they were evidently attracted
by the sound. These seals are numerous in some of the bays on the New England coast. Most of
them are small, but occasionally one is seen of considerable size. Their fur is coarse and
of little value, but they are sought after by fishermen for the sake of their oil, which commands
a ready sale for a good price. After we had got fully rested, we launched our boat, rowed homeward,
and soon landed upon the beach.

SPRING AND SUMMER.

BY DORA READ GOODALE.

  In Spring we note the breaking
    Of every baby bud;
  In Spring we note the waking
    Of wild flowers of the wood;
  In Summer's fuller power,
    In Summer's deeper soul,
  We watch no single flower,--
    We see, we breathe the whole.

THE AX OF RANIER.

BY THOMAS DUNN ENGLISH.

Once upon a time, there lived on the borders of a forest an old woman named Jehanne, who had
an only son, a youth of twenty-one years, who was called Ranier. Where the two had originally
come from no one knew; but they had lived in their little hut for many years. Ranier was a
wood-cutter, and depended on his daily labor for the support of himself and mother, while the
latter eked out their scanty means by spinning. The son, although poor, was not without learning,
for an old monk in a neighboring convent had taught him to read and write, and had given him
instructions in arithmetic. Ranier was handsome, active and strong, and very much attached
to his mother, to whom he paid all the honor and obedience due from a son to a parent.

One morning in spring, Ranier went to his work in the forest with his ax on his shoulder, whistling
one of the simple airs of the country as he pursued his way. Striding along beneath the branches
of the great oaks and chestnuts, he began to reflect upon the hard fate which seemed to doom
him to toil and wretchedness, and, thus thinking, whistled no longer. Presently he sat down
upon a moss-covered rock, and laying his ax by his side, let his thoughts shape themselves
into words.

"This is a sad life of mine," said Ranier. "I might better it, perhaps, were I to enlist in
the army of the king, where I should at least have food and clothing; but I cannot leave my
mother, of whom I am the sole stay and support. Must I always live thus,--a poor wood-chopper,
earning one day the bread I eat the next, and no more?"

Ranier suddenly felt that some one was near him, and, on looking up, sprang to his feet and
removed his cap. Before him stood a beautiful lady, clad in a robe of green satin, with a mantle
of crimson velvet on her shoulders, and bearing in her hand a white wand.

"Ranier!" said the unknown, "I am the fairy, Rougevert. I know your history, and have heard
your complaint. What gift shall I bestow on you?"

"Beautiful fairy," replied the young man, "I scarcely know what to ask. But I bethink me that
my ax is nearly worn out, and I have no money with which to buy another."

The fairy smiled, for she knew that the answer of Ranier came from his embarrassment; and,
going to a tree hard by, she tapped on the bark with her wand. Thereupon the tree opened, and
she took from a recess in its center, a keen-edged ax with an ashen handle.

"Here," said Rougevert, "is the most excellent ax in the world. With this you can achieve what
no wood-chopper has ever done yet. You have only to whisper to yourself what you wish done,
and then speak to it properly, and the ax will at once perform all you require, without taxing
your strength, and with marvelous quickness."

The fairy then taught him the words he should use, and, promising to farther befriend him as
he had need, vanished.

Ranier took the ax, and went at once to the place where he intended to labor for the day. He
was not sure that the ax would do what the giver had promised, but thought it proper to try
its powers. "For," he said to himself, "the ranger has given me a hundred trees to fell, for
each of which I am to receive a silver groat. To cut these in the usual way would take many
days. I will wish the ax to fell and trim them speedily, so,"--he continued aloud, as he had
been taught by the fairy,--"Ax! ax! chop! chop! and work for my profit!"

Thereupon the ax suddenly leapt from his hands, and began to chop with great skill and swiftness.
Having soon cut down, trimmed and rolled a hundred trees together, it returned, and placed
itself in the hands of Ranier.

The wood-chopper was very much delighted with all this, and sat there pleasantly reflecting
upon his good fortune in possessing so useful a servant, when the ranger of the forest came
along. The latter, who was a great lord, was much surprised when he saw the trees lying there.

"How is this?" asked the ranger, whose name was Woodmount. "At this time yesterday these trees
were standing. How did you contrive to fell them so soon?"

"I had assistance, my lord," replied Ranier; but he said nothing about the magic ax.

Lord Woodmount hereupon entered into conversation with Ranier, and finding him to be intelligent
and prompt in his replies, was much pleased with him. At last he said:

"We have had much difficulty in getting ready the timber for the king's new palace, in consequence
of the scarcity of wood-cutters, and the slowness with which they work. There are over twenty
thousand trees yet to be cut and hewn, and for every tree fully finished the king allows a
noble of fifty groats, although he allows but a groat for the felling alone. It is necessary
that they should be all ready within a month, though I fear that is impossible. As you seem
to be able to get a number of laborers together, I will allot you a thousand trees, if you
choose, should you undertake to have them all ready to be hauled away for the builders' use,
within a month's time."

"My lord," answered Ranier, "I will undertake to have the whole twenty thousand ready before
the time set."

"Do you know what you say?" inquired the ranger, astonished at the bold proposal.

"Perfectly, my lord," was the reply. "Let me undertake the work on condition that you will
cause the forest to be guarded, and no one to enter save they have my written permission. Before
the end of the month the trees will be ready."

"Well," said Lord Woodmount, "it is a risk for me to run; but from what you have done already,
it is possible you may obtain enough woodmen to complete your task. Yet, beware! If you succeed,
I will not only give you twenty thousand nobles of gold, but also appoint you--if you can write,
as you have told me--the deputy-ranger here; and for every day less than a month in which you
finish your contract I will add a hundred nobles; but, if you fail, I will have you hanged
on a tree. When will you begin?"

"To-morrow morning," replied Ranier.

The next morning, before daylight, Ranier took his way to the forest, leaving all his money
save three groats with his mother, and, after telling her that he might not return for a day
or so, passed the guard that he found already set, and plunged into the wood. When he came
to a place where the trees were thickest and loftiest, he whispered to himself what he had
to do, and said to the ax: "Ax! ax! chop! chop! and work for my profit." The ax at once went
to work with great earnestness, and by night-fall over ten thousand trees were felled, hewn,
and thrown into piles. Then Ranier, who had not ceased before to watch the work, ate some of
the provisions which he had brought with him, and throwing himself under a great tree, whose
spreading boughs shaded him from the moonlight, drew his scanty mantle around him, and slept
soundly till sunrise.

The next morning Ranier arose, and looked with delight at the work already done; then, speaking
again to the ax, it began chopping away as before.

Now, it chanced that morning that the chief ranger had started to see how the work was being
done, and, on reaching the forest, asked the guards if many wood-cutters had entered. They
all replied that only one had made his appearance, but he must be working vigorously, since
all that morning, and the whole day before, the wood had resounded with the blows of axes.
The Lord Woodmount thereupon rode on in great anger, for he thought that Ranier had mocked
him. But presently he came to great piles of hewn timber which astonished him much; and then
he heard the axes' sound, which astonished him more, for it seemed as though twenty wood-choppers
were engaged at once, so great was the din. When he came to where the ax was at work, he thought
he saw--and this was through the magic power of the fairy--thousands of wood-cutters, all arrayed
in green hose and red jerkins, some felling the trees, some hewing them into square timber,
and others arranging the hewn logs into piles of a hundred each, while Ranier stood looking
on. He was so angry at the guards for having misinformed him, that he at once rode back and
rated them soundly on their supposed untruth. But as they persisted in the story that but one
man had passed, he grew angrier than ever. While he was still rating them, Ranier came up.

"Well, my lord," said the latter, "if you will go or send to examine, you will find that twenty
thousand trees are already cut, squared, and made ready to be hauled to the king's palace-ground."

The ranger at once rode back into the forest, and, having counted the number of piles, was
much pleased, and ordered Ranier to come that day week when the timber would be inspected,
and if it were all properly done he would receive the twenty thousand nobles agreed upon.

"Excuse me, my lord," suggested Ranier, "but the work has been done in two days instead of
thirty; and twenty-eight days off at a hundred nobles per day makes twenty-two thousand eight
hundred nobles as my due."

"True," replied the ranger; "and if you want money now--"

"Oh no!" interrupted Ranier, "I have three groats in my purse, and ten more at home, which
will be quite sufficient for my needs."

At this the ranger laughed outright, and then rode away.

At the end of a week, Ranier sought the ranger's castle, and there received not only an order
on the king's treasurer for the money, but also the patent of deputy-ranger of the king's forest,
and the allotment of a handsome house in which to live. Thither Ranier brought his mother,
and as he was now rich, he bought him fine clothing, and hired him servants, and lived in grand
style, performing all the duties of his office as though he had been used to it all his life.
People noticed, however, that the new deputy-ranger never went out without his ax, which occasioned
some gossip at first; but some one having suggested that he did so to show that he was not
ashamed of his former condition, folk were satisfied,--though the truth was that he carried
the ax for service only.

Now it happened that Ranier was walking alone one evening in the forest to observe whether
any one was trying to kill the king's deer, and while there, he heard the clash of swords.
On going to the spot whence the noise came, he saw a cavalier richly clad, with his back to
a tree, defending himself as he best might, from a half dozen men in armor, each with his visor
down. Ranier had no sword, for, not being a knight, it was forbidden him to bear such a weapon;
but he bethought him of his ax, and hoped it might serve the men as it had the trees. So he
wished these cowardly assailants killed, and when he uttered the prescribed words, the ax fell
upon the villains, and so hacked and hewed them that they were at once destroyed. But it seemed
to the knight thus rescued that it was the arm of Ranier that guided the ax, for such was the
magic of the fairy.

So soon as the assailants had been slain, the ax came back into Ranier's hand, and Ranier went
to the knight, who was faint with his wounds, and offered to lead him to his house. And when
he examined him fully, he bent on his knee, for he discovered that it was the king, Dagobert,
whom he had seen once before when the latter was hunting in the forest.

The king said: "This is the deputy-ranger, Master Ranier. Is it not?"

"Yes, sire!" replied Ranier.

The king laid the blade of his sword on Ranier's shoulder, and said:

"I dub thee knight. Rise up, Sir Ranier! Be trusty, true and loyal."

Sir Ranier arose a knight, and with the king examined the faces of the would-be assassins,
who were found to be great lords of the country, and among them was Lord Woodmount.

"Sir Ranier," said the king, "have these wretches removed and buried. The office of chief ranger
is thine."

Sir Ranier, while the king was partaking of refreshments at Ranier's house, sent trusty servants
to bury the slain. After this, King Dagobert returned to his palace, whence he sent the new
knight his own sword, a baldrick and spurs of gold, a collar studded with jewels, the patent
of chief ranger of the forest, and a letter inviting him to visit the court.

Now, when Sir Ranier went to court, the ladies there, seeing that he was young and handsome,
treated him with great favor; and even the king's daughter, the Princess Isauré, smiled sweetly
on him, which, when divers great lords saw, they were very angry, and plotted to injure the
new-comer; for they thought him of base blood, and were much chagrined that he should have
been made a knight, and be thus welcomed by the princess and the ladies of the court; and they
hated him more as the favorite of the king. So they conferred together how to punish him for
his good fortune, and at length formed a plan which they thought would serve their ends.

It must be understood that King Dagobert was at that time engaged in a war with King Crimball,
who reigned over an adjoining kingdom, and that the armies of the two kings now lay within
thirty miles of the forest, and were about to give each other battle. As Sir Ranier, it was
supposed, had never been bred to feats of arms, they thought if they could get him in the field,
he would so disgrace himself as to lose the favor of the king and the court dames, or be certainly
slain. For these lords knew nothing of the adventure of the king in the forest,--all those
in the conspiracy having been slain,--and thought that Ranier had either rendered some trifling
service to the king, or in some way had pleased the sovereign's fancy. So when the king and
some of the great lords of the court were engaged in talking of the battle that was soon to
be fought, one of the conspirators, named Dyvorer, approached them, and said:

"Why not send Sir Ranier there, sire; for he is, no doubt, a brave and accomplished knight,
and would render great service?"

The king was angry at this, for he knew that Ranier had not been bred to arms, and readily
penetrated the purpose that prompted the suggestion. Before he could answer, however, Sir Ranier,
who had heard the words of Dyvorer, spoke up and said:

"I pray you, sire, to let me go; for, though I may not depend much upon my lance and sword,
I have an ax that never fails me."

Then the king remembered of the marvelous feats which he had seen Ranier perform in his behalf,
and he replied:

"You shall go, Sir Ranier; and as the Lord Dyvorer has made a suggestion of such profit, he
shall have the high honor of attending as one of the knights in your train, where he will,
doubtless, support you well."

At this, the rest laughed, and Dyvorer was much troubled, for he was a great coward. But he
dared not refuse obedience.

The next morning, Sir Ranier departed along with the king for the field of battle, bearing
his ax with him; and, when they arrived, they found both sides drawn up in battle order, and
waiting the signal to begin. Before they fell to, a champion of the enemy, a knight of fortune
from Bohemia, named Sir Paul, who was over seven feet in height, and a very formidable soldier,
who fought as well with his left hand as with his right, rode forward between the two armies,
and defied any knight in King Dagobert's train to single combat.

Then said Dyvorer: "No doubt, here is a good opportunity for Sir Ranier to show his prowess."

"Be sure that it is!" exclaimed Sir Ranier; and he rode forward to engage Sir Paul.

When the Bohemian knight saw only a stripling, armed with a woodman's ax, he laughed. "Is this
girl their champion, then?" he asked. "Say thy prayers, young sir, for thou art not long for
this world, I promise thee."

But Ranier whispered to himself, "I want me this braggart hewn to pieces, and then the rest
beaten;" and added, aloud: "Ax! ax! chop! chop! and work for my profit!" Whereupon the ax leapt
forward, and dealt such a blow upon Sir Paul that it pierced through his helmet, and clave
him to the saddle. Then it went chopping among the enemy with such force that it cut them down
by hundreds; and King Dagobert with his army falling upon them, won a great victory.

Now the magic of the ax followed it here as before, and every looker-on believed he saw Sir
Ranier slaying his hundreds. So it chanced when the battle was over, and those were recalled
who pursued the enemy, that a group of knights, and the great lords of the court who were gathered
around the king, and were discussing the events of the day, agreed as one man, that there never
had been a warrior as potent as Sir Ranier since the days of Roland, and that he deserved to
be made a great lord. And the king thought so, too. So he created him a baron on the field,
and ordered his patent of nobility to be made out on their return, and gave him castles and
land; and, furthermore, told him he would grant him any favor more he chose to ask, though
it were half the kingdom.

When Dyvorer and others heard this, they were more envious than ever, and concerted together
a plan for the ruin of Lord Treefell, for such was Sir Ranier's new title. After many things
had been proposed and rejected, Dyvorer said: "The Princess Isauré loves this stripling, as
I have been told by my sister, the Lady Zanthe, who attends on her highness. I think he has
dared to raise his hopes to her. I will persuade him to demand her hand as the favor the king
has promised. Ranier does not know our ancient law, and, while he will fail in his suit, the
king will be so offended at his presumption that he will speedily dismiss him from the court."

This plan was greatly approved. Dyvorer sought out Ranier, to whom he professed great friendship,
with many regrets for all he might have said or done in the past calculated to give annoyance.
As Dyvorer was a great dissembler, and Ranier was frank and unsuspicious, they became very
intimate. At length, one day when they were together, Dyvorer said:

"Have you ever solicited the king for the favor he promised?"

And Ranier answered, "No!"

"Then," said Dyvorer, "it is a pity that you do not love the Princess Isauré."

"Why?" inquired Ranier.

