"That is a terrible consideration; and yet what was true of me is doubly and trebly true of
Lettice. My darling mother would not hear of me relinquishing my happiness upon her account--and
ought Lettice to be allowed to make such a sacrifice?"

"Well, well, my dear, it is time enough to begin to deprecate such a sacrifice when the opportunity
for it occurs, but I own I see little hope of a romance for your poor, dear Lettice, seeing
that an important personage in such matters, namely, a hero, seems to me to be utterly out
of the question. There is not a young gentleman within twenty miles, so far as I can see, that
is in the least likely to think of the good girl."

"Alas, no! that is the worst of it."

But the romance of Lettice's life was nearer than they imagined.

       *       *       *       *       *

The visit of Catherine at the Hazels cheered up Lettice very much; and in the delights of a
little society with those of her own age, she soon forgot all her quarrels with herself; and
brushed away the cobwebs which were gathering over her brain. She was enchanted, too, with
the baby, and as she felt that, while Catherine was with her mother, she rather interfered
with, than increased Mrs. Melwyn's enjoyment, she used to indulge herself with long walks through
the beautiful surrounding country, accompanying the nurse and helping to carry the babe.

She visited several lonely places and remote cottages, where she had never been before; and
began to feel a new interest given to existence when she was privileged to assist others under
the pressure of that want and misery which she understood but too well. One evening she and
the nurse had strayed in a new direction, and did not exactly know where they were. Very far
from the house she was aware it could not be, by the time she had been absent, but they had
got into one of those deep, hollow lanes, from which it is impossible to catch a glimpse of
the surrounding country: those lanes so still, and so beautiful, with their broken sandy banks,
covered with tufts of feathering grass, with peeping primroses and violets, and barren strawberries
between; the beech and ash of the copses casting their slender branches across, and checkering
the way with innumerable broken lights! While, may be, as was here the case, a long pebbly
stream runs sparkling and shining upon one side of the way, forming ten thousand little pools
and waterfalls as it courses along.

Charmed with the scene, Lettice could not prevail upon herself to turn back till she had pursued
her way a little farther. At last a turn in the lane brought her to a lowly and lonely cottage,
which stood in a place where the bank had a little receded, and the ground formed a small grassy
semicircle, with the steep banks rising all around it--here stood the cottage.

It was an ancient, picturesque looking thing, built one knows not when. I have seen one such
near Stony Cross in Hampshire, which the tradition of the county affirms to be the very identical
cottage into which the dying William Rufus was carried, and I am half inclined to believe it.

Their deep heavy roofs, huge roof-trees, little low walls and small windows, speak of habits
of life very remote from our own--and look to me as if like a heap of earth--a tumulus--such
edifices might stand unchanged for tens of ages.

The cottage before us was of this description, and had probably been a woodman's hut when the
surrounding country was all one huge forest. The walls were not more than five feet high, over
which hung the deep and heavy roof, covered with moss, and the thatch was overlaid with a heap
of black mould, which afforded plentiful nourishment to stonecrops, and various tufts of beautifully
feathered grass, which waved in fantastic plumes over it. The door, the frame of which was
all aslant, seemed almost buried in, and pressed down by this roof, placed in which were two
of those old windows which show that the roof itself formed the upper chamber of the dwelling.
A white rose bush was banded up on one side of this door; a rosemary tree upon the other; a
little border with marigolds, lemon thyme and such like pot-herbs, ran round the house, which
lay in a tiny plot of ground carefully cultivated as a garden. Here a very aged man, bent almost
double as it would seem with the weight of years, was very languidly digging or attempting it.

The nurse was tired, so was the babe, so was Lettice. They agreed to ask the old man's leave
to enter the cottage, and sit down a little, before attempting to return home.

"May we go in, good man, and rest ourselves a little while?" asked Lettice.

"Anan--"

"Will you give us leave to go in and rest ourselves a little? We are both tired with carrying
the baby."

"I don't know well what it is you're saying. How many miles to Brainford? Maybe two; but it's
a weary while sin' I've been there."

"He can't understand us, nurse, at all. He seems almost stone deaf. Let us knock at the door,
and see who's within, for you look ready to drop; and I am so excessively tired I can hardly
help you. However, give me your sleeping babe at all events, for you really seem as if you
could stand no longer."

She took the child, which had long been fast asleep, went to the cottage door, and knocked.

"Come in," said a voice.

Not such a voice as she expected to hear, but a sweet, well-modulated voice, that of a person
of education. A man's voice, however, it was. She hesitated a little, upon which some one rose
and opened the door, but started back upon seeing a young lady with a child in her arms, looking
excessively tired, and as if she could hold up no longer.

"Pray, come in," he said, observing she hesitated, and, retreating back a little as he spoke,
showed a small bed not far from the fire, standing in the chimney place, as it is called. In
this bed lay a very aged woman. A large, but very, very ancient Bible lay open upon the bed,
and a chair a little pushed back was standing near it. It would seem that the young gentleman
had risen from the chair where he to all appearance had been reading the Bible to the bed-ridden
old woman. "Pray, come in, and sit down," he repeated, holding the door to let Lettice enter.
"You look exceedingly tired. The place is very humble but perfectly clean, and poor old Betty
Rigby will be very happy to give you leave to enter."

The young man who spoke was dressed in deep black; but as there was a crape band round his
hat which lay upon the table, it would seem that he was in mourning, and possibly, therefore,
not a clergyman. He was something above the middle height; but his figure was spoiled by its
extreme thinness, and a stoop in the shoulder which seemed to be the effect of weakness. His
face was very thin, and his cheek perfectly pale; but his features were beautifully proportioned,
and his large gray eyes beamed with a subdued and melancholy splendor. There was the fire of
fever, and there was that of genius.

The expression of this face was soft and sweet in the extreme, but it was rendered almost painful
by its cast of deep sadness. Lettice looked at him, and was struck by his appearance in a way
she had never in her life been before. He was, I believe, as much struck with hers. These unexpected
meetings, in totally unexpected places, often produce such sudden and deep impressions. The
happier being was moved and interested by the delicacy the attenuation, the profound sadness
of the beautiful countenance before her; the other with the bloom of health, the cheerful,
wholesome expression, the character and meaning of the face presented to him, as the young
girl stood there holding the sleeping infant in her arms. Certainly though not regularly pretty,
she was a very picturesque and pleasing looking object at that moment.

The old woman from her bed added her invitation to that of the young man.

"Please to walk in, miss. It's a poor place. Please take a chair. Oh, my poor limbs! I've been
bed-ridden these half-score years; but pray, sit down and rest yourselves, and welcome. Law!
but that's a pretty bairn, ben't it."

Lettice took the offered chair and sat down, still holding the baby; the nurse occupied the
other; the young man continued standing.

"I am afraid we have interrupted you," said Lettice, glancing at the book.

"Oh, pray don't think of it! I am in no hurry to be gone. My time," with a suppressed sigh,
"is all my own. I will finish my lecture by-and-by."

"Ay, do--do--that's a good gentleman. Do you know, ma'am, he's been the kindest friend, young
as he looks, that ever I or my good man met with. You see we lie here out of the way like--it's
a big monstrous parish this, and our parson has a world of work to do. So we gets rather overlooked,
though, poor man, I believe, he does what he can. I've lived here these ten years, crippled
and bed-ridden as you see, but I got along pretty well for some time, for I was a bit of a
schollard in my youth; but last winter my eyes took to being bad, and since then I've not been
able to read a line. All gets dizzy like. And I was very dull and sore beset that I couldn't
even see to read the word of God, and my poor husband, that's the old man as is delving in
the garden there, why he has hardly any eyes left in his head. Enough just to potter about
like, an' see his way, but he couldn't read a line, and it was never so; and so that blessed
young gentleman--law! where is he? Why, I declare he's gone!"

The young gentleman had, indeed, quietly glided out of the cottage as soon as his éloge began.

"That young gentleman--I can say what I like now he is gone--has been so good to us. Many's
the half-crown he's given me, and a warm winter coat of his own to my poor rheumatized old
man. Oh! he's a blessed one--and then he comes and sits and reads to me of an afternoon for
an hour together, because as how one day he called he found me a-cryin, for why, I could no
longer read the Holy Word--and he says 'Cheer up, Betty, be of good comfort, I'll read it to
you daily'--and when I said 'daily, sir--that'll take up too much of your time, I fear'--he
sighed a little, and said he'd nothing particular to do with his time."

"Who is he? Does he belong to this neighborhood?"

"No, miss, he's only been here maybe a half-year or so. He came down on a visit to Mr. Hickman
the doctor out there, Brainwood way, and presently he went and lodged at a cottage hard by,
to be near Hickman, who's a great name for such complaints as his'n--A-A--I don't know what's
the name--but he's very bad, they say, and not able to do any thing in the world. Well, he's
the best, kindest, Christian young man, you ever see or I ever see. The power of good he does
among the poor--poor young fellow--is not to be told or counted--but he's so melancholy like,
and so gentle, and so kind, it makes one a'most cry to look at him; that's the worst of it."

"He looks like a clergyman; I could fancy he was in holy orders. Do you know whether he is
so or not?"

"Yes, ma'am, I have heard say that he is a parson, but nobody in these parts has ever seen
him in a pulpit; but now it strikes me I've heard that he was to be curate to Mr. Thomas, of
Briarwood parish, but he was ta'en bad of his chest or his throat, and never able to speak
up like, so it would not do; he can not at present speak in a church, for his voice sounds
so low, so low."

"I wonder we have never met with him, or heard of him before."

"Oh, miss! he's not been in this country very long, and he goes out nowhere but to visit the
poor; and tired and weak as he looks, he seems never tired of doing good."

"He looks very pale and thin."

"Ay, doesn't he? I'm afraid he's but badly; I've heard some say he was in a galloping consumption,
others a decline; I don't know, but he seems mighty weak like."

A little more talk went on in the same way, and then Lettice asked the nurse whether she felt
rested, as it was time to be returning home, and, giving the poor bed-ridden patient a little
money, which was received with abundance of thanks, Lettice left the house.

When she entered the little garden, she saw the young man was not gone; he was leaning pensively
against the gate, watching the swinging branches of a magnificent ash tree, which grew upon
a green plot by the side of the lane. Beautiful it was as it spread its mighty magnificent
head against the deep blue summer sky, and a soft wind gently whispered among its forest of leaves.

Lettice could not help, as she observed the countenance of the young man, who seemed lost in
thought, admiring the extraordinary beauty of its expression. Something of the sublime, something
of the angelic, which we see in a few remarkable countenances, but usually in those which are
spiritualized by mental sufferings, and great physical delicacy.

He started from his reverie as she and the nurse approached, and lifted the latchet of the
little wicket to lot them pass. And, as he did so, the large, melancholy eye was lighted up
with something of a pleasurable expression, as he looked at Lettice, and said,

"A beautiful afternoon. May I venture to ask were you intending to visit that poor bed-ridden
creature? I thought by the expression she used that you were not acquainted with her case,
and probably had never been in the cottage before. Will you excuse me for saying she is in
great necessity?"

"It is the first time I have ever been down this lane, sir, but I assure you it shall not be
the last; I will come and see the poor woman again. There are few things I pity so much as
the being bed-ridden."

She had walked into the lane. He had quitted the garden too, and continued to walk by her side
talking as he went.

"I hope there is not so much suffering in that state as we are apt to imagine," he said; "at
least, I have observed that very poor people are enabled to bear it with wonderful cheerfulness
and patience. I believe, to those who have lived a life of hard labor, rest has something acceptable
in it, which compensates for many privations--but these old creatures are also miserably poor.
The parish can not allow much, and they are so anxious not to be forced into the house, that
they contrive to make a very little do. The poor woman has been for years receiving relief
as member of a sick-club; but lately the managers have come to a resolution, that she has been
upon the list for such an unexampled length of time, that they can not afford to go on with
the allowance any longer."

"How cruel and unjust!"

"Very sad, as it affects her comforts, poor creature, and certainly not just; yet, as she paid
only about three years, and has been receiving an allowance for fifteen, it would be difficult,
I fancy, to make the sort of people who manage such clubs see it quite in that light. At all
events, we can get her no redress, for she does not belong to this parish, though her husband
does; and the club of which she is a member is in a place at some distance, of which the living
is sequestrated, and there is no one of authority there to whom we can apply. I only take the
liberty of entering into these details, madam, in order to convince you that any charity you
may extend in this quarter, will be particularly well applied."

