HISTORY

OF

NEW BRUNSWICK

By Peter Fisher

AS ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED IN 1825 (With a few additional Explanatory Notes)

NOW RE-PRINTED JOINTLY BY

THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW BRUNSWICK AND WILLIAM SHIVES FISHER (Grandson of the Author)

UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE NEW BRUNSWICK HISTORICAL SOCIETY ST. JOHN, N. B. 1921

Publisher's Notice.

The tale of the Loyalists; their loyalty to high ideals of national duty--to fulfil which they
underwent untold losses, privations and sufferings when they abandoned their homes and their
all, and sought new homes and commenced a new life in a northern wilderness--is a story that
appeals wherever patriotism is an honor and self-sacrifice a virtue. In this Province of New-Brunswick,
settled mainly by families torn and rent by the American revolution and whose descendants are
reaping the reward of their sacrifice, it is of peculiar interest.

In 1825, when Peter Fisher published the first Historical work, the Province of New-Brunswick
had received the loyalist immigration forty-three years before, at which date it was constituted
a separate Province. The progress of the country during a period when its political institutions
and industrial life were in a formative condition is of deep interest. The account given of
it in Mr. Fisher's work is of sufficient value in the opinion of the New Brunswick Historical
Society to warrant its being reprinted. In addition to the original work, there has been embodied
with it, notes and observations prepared by the Venerable Archdeacon Raymond and published
in Vol. X of the records of the Society. A copy of the history not being available, this is
printed from a photostat copy furnished by the Dominion archives.

SKETCHES

OF

NEW-BRUNSWICK;

CONTAINING

AN ACCOUNT OF THE FIRST SETTLEMENT OF THE PROVINCE,

WITH

A BRIEF DESCRIPTION

OF THE

COUNTRY, CLIMATE, PRODUCTIONS, INHABITANTS, GOVERNMENT, RIVERS, TOWNS, SETTLEMENTS, PUBLIC
INSTITUTIONS, TRADE, REVENUE, POPULATION, &c.

BY

An Inhabitant of the Province.

    "Whatever concerns my country, interests me;
    I follow nature, with truth my guide."

SAINT JOHN: PRINTED BY CHUBB & SEARS, MARKET-SQUARE.

1825.

To the Reader.

Having at different times collected what information I could obtain relating to the Province
of New-Brunswick, I intended whenever I had a sufficient fund of correct materials, to publish
them in such a shape as to diffuse a general knowledge of the Country, its productions, sources
of wealth, &c. For this reason I had kept the different Counties, as well as the several subjects
of which I intended to treat, separate, in order to receive such additions as I could from
time to time make. But as I am happy to find that it is one of the objects of the New-Brunswick
Agricultural and Emigrant Society, to publish a Geographical and Statistical Account of the
Province, as soon as materials can be collected, I have given up my first design--being convinced
that such a Society can collect correct information and the materials for such a desirable
object with far greater facility and accuracy than an individual. In the mean time, I have
given these Sketches to the public, hoping they may serve to give a faint knowledge of the
Country, till a more perfect Work is prepared. It is no small matter to give any thing like
a full description of a new Country like New-Brunswick, where the Compiler has but few helps--where
there are but few written documents to resort to, and where neither Animals, Minerals, or Plants,
have been properly arranged; and where there are but few correct materials to guide him in
pointing out the changes of the seasons and other natural phenomena, with many other things
which are requisite in a complete description of a new Country. The labour of even arranging
the different Parishes was considerable, which the statement of the population of the Province,
(had I possessed that document in time,) would have at once supplied.

It was my intention to add a concise history of the principal transactions that have taken
place in the Country from its first occupation to the present time, from such sources both
written and oral, as came within my researches; but have for the reasons before stated relinquished
that design.

The description of some of the Counties is not so full as I could wish, but it may be observed
this is but an outline of what I at first designed; and that the information I had collected
of some of the Counties, was very scanty; but that I intended to extend it to considerable
length, as correct materials could be procured. Having therefore abandoned my first design,
I had to contract the description of some of the Counties of which I had a fuller knowledge,
to make the Work more uniform; and not to appear partial to some parts of the Province, or
to have forgotten others.

Fractional accuracy cannot be expected in such a brief outline; neither indeed is it of much
consequence. I have, however, endeavoured to come as near the reality as possible, and given
as full a detail as the size of the Work would allow.

                                             THE AUTHOR.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

Old Settlers on the River Saint John. New-Brunswick erected into a Government, and settled
by the Loyalists in 1783-4. Difficulties of the first Settlers. List of successive Governors
and Presidents.

The Province of New-Brunswick formerly formed a part of Nova-Scotia, which was the first European
settlement on the Continent of North America.--The first grant of land in it was given by King
JAMES the FIRST to Sir WILLIAM ALEXANDER, in 1621--from whom it had the name of Nova-Scotia
or New Scotland. It was at that time regarded by the English as a part of CABOT'S discovery
of Terra-Nova. The first settlers, however, were emigrants from France, who as early as the
year 1604 came to the Country with DE MONT, a French adventurer, and gave it the name of Acadia.

This country frequently changed masters; passing from the French to the English, and back again,
till it was finally ceded in full sovereignty to the British at the peace of Utrecht in 1713.

During the American War of 1775, they were joined by a number of other families from New England:
the district adjoining Maugerville was settled, and the whole called by the general name of
Sunbury, where the Courts of Justice were held till 1783: when the peace with America left
the Loyalists who had followed the British standard, to seek an asylum in some part of the
British dominions.

Prior to this period a number of families from Yorkshire in England, and others from Massachusetts,
had settled in and about Cumberland, where many of their descendants still remain.--These people,
actuated by different attachments, lived during the war in a state of hostility with each other;--one
part adhering to the British, and the other to the Americans.

In the month of April, 1783, about three thousand persons, men, women, and children, sailed
from New-York for the River Saint John; many of them being passengers, but the major part persons
who had joined the British army, and were now sent to this Country to be disbanded and settled.
In the month of October following, about twelve hundred more arrived from the same place. Those
as well as the former had to seek a shelter from the approaching winter, by building log and
bark huts; a few indeed were admitted into the houses of the settlers who had resided here
before and during the American war. Provisions and clothing were furnished by Government for
the first year, with a few implements to commence a settlement. Lord DORCHESTER appointed the
Rev. Mr. SAYRE, GEORGE LEONARD, WILLIAM TYNG, and JAMES PETERS, Esquires, as agents to apply
for lands and locate them. Major STUDHOLM was soon after added to the number by Governor PARR.--This
Officer at that time commanded the Garrison of Fort Howe, at the entrance of Saint John River.
These agents appointed the Rev. Mr. ARNOLD for their secretary. The duties that devolved on
these gentlemen were of the most arduous nature; they had however the satisfaction of receiving
the thanks of the Governor and Council of Nova-Scotia, for their upright conduct in transacting
that business.

In the year 1785, the present limits of New-Brunswick were divided from Nova-Scotia, and a
separate Charter of a Constitution was granted to the Province, under Governor CARLETON, with
a Council composed of the following gentlemen:--BEVERLEY ROBINSON, GABRIEL G. LUDLOW, GEORGE
D. LUDLOW, ABIJAH WILLARD, JONATHAN ODELL, JAMES PUTNAM, JOSHUA UPHAM, EDWARD WINSLOW, WILLIAM
HAZEN, GILFRED STUDHOLM, AND DANIEL BLISS.--BEVERLEY ROBINSON, ABIJAH WILLARD, and JAMES PUTNAM,
died soon after, when BEVERLEY ROBINSON, the son of the former, with GEORGE LEONARD, and JOHN
SAUNDERS, were appointed to succeed them. The above Members of the Council transacted the business
of the Province for a long while. Governor CARLETON was authorized from the Crown to locate
lands to the Loyalists and disbanded Troops in proportion to their ability and rank.

From this period the Province slowly improved in Agriculture, Ship Building, and the exportation
of Masts, Spars, &c. to Great-Britain, and Fish, Staves, Shingles, Hoop Poles, and sawed Lumber
to the West-Indies. Receiving in return coarse Woollens and other articles from England; and
Rum, Sugar, Molasses, and other produce from the West-Indies.--a Town was built at the mouth
of the River Saint John, and another at St. Ann's Point, called Fredericton, where part of
two Regiments were stationed till the French revolution.--Barracks and other public works were
erected in different places, and the upper part of the Country settled by establishing two
military posts in the interior, one at the Presqu-Isle, eighty miles above Fredericton, and
another at the Grand Falls, fifty-two miles farther up. But the difficulties to which the first
settlers were exposed continued for a long time almost insurmountable. Having been reared in
a pleasant Country, abounding in all the comforts of life, they found themselves suddenly transplanted
to a wilderness with a rigorous climate, devoid of almost every thing that could make life
tolerable.--On their arrival they found a few hovels where Saint John is now built, the adjacent
country exhibiting a most desolate aspect; which was peculiarly discouraging to people who
had just left their homes in the beautiful and cultivated parts of the United States. Up the
River Saint John the country appeared better, and a few cultivated spots were found occupied
by old settlers. The climate at that period (from what cause has not yet been satisfactorily
ascertained) being far more severe than at present. They were frequently put to the greatest
straits for food and clothing to preserve existence; a few roots were all that tender mothers
could at times procure to allay the importunate calls of their children for food.--Sir GUY
CARLETON had ordered them provisions for the first year at the expense of Government; but as
the country was not much cultivated at that time, food could scarcely be procured on any terms.
The privations and sufferings of some of those people almost exceed belief. The want of food
and clothing in a wild, cold country, was not easily dispensed with or soon remedied.

Some readers looking only at the present state of the country may smile at this account as
wildly exaggerated, and may suppose that the skins of the moose and other wild animals would
have been a far better substitute for bedding. But I have received the account of the above
facts, with many other expedients which were at that time adopted by the settlers, from persons
of undoubted veracity, and who had been eye witnesses of what they related. It is, however,
needless to enlarge upon the hardships they endured, as most of the sufferers are now no more.
Some indeed were discouraged and left the country; but most of those who remained had the pleasure
of seeing the country improved and their families comfortably settled. Many of those Loyalists
were in the prime of life when they came to this country; and most of them had young families.
To establish these they wore out their lives in toil and poverty, and by their unremitting
exertions subdued the wilderness, and covered the face of the country with habitations, villages,
and towns.

I have not noticed these circumstances as if they were peculiar to the settlers of New-Brunswick;
but to hold up to the descendants of those sufferers the hardships endured by their parents;
and to place in a striking point of view, the many comforts they possess by the suffering,
perseverance, and industry of their fathers. All new settlements formed at a great distance
from the parent state, are exposed to difficulties, till the country becomes improved. Many
of the Colonies in North America, when first settled, were more than once on the point of total
extinction. The remnant of the inhabitants of some of them were even embarked to abandon the
country altogether, when they were stopped by succour from home. The remembrance of the difficulties
of the first settlers should make their descendants contented with their present advantages,
and instead of wishing to change, to use their own exertions to improve the country, and duly
to appreciate the many blessings and privileges they enjoy.

Under the judicious and paternal care of Governor CARLETON, assisted by several of the leading
characters, many of the difficulties of settling an infant and distant Country were lessened.
The condition of the settlers was gradually ameliorated; agriculture was particularly attended
to: The Governor himself set a pattern in which he was followed by several of the leading men
in the different offices. A variety of grains and roots were cultivated with success, and considerable
progress made in clearing the wilderness. Barren seasons were sometimes experienced, when the
scarcity of food was partially remedied by the exertions of the Governor, assisted by several
other public spirited gentlemen, who are now no more.

After having governed the Province for nearly twenty years--after having seen the country from
a desolate wilderness rising to a state of importance among the surrounding Colonies--after
having seen the settlers placed in a state of comparative comfort and independence--and after
having in every respect endeared himself to them as their common father and benefactor--Governor
CARLETON, in 1803, removed to England, when the Government of the Province was administered
by the following persons, under the style of Presidents, till his death, viz.--G. G. LUDLOW,
from his departure till February, 1808; EDWARD WINSLOW, Esquire, from that period till the
24th May following; when he was succeeded by Major-General HUNTER, who held the Government,
with the exception of two short intervals, (during which the Government devolved first on Lieutenant-Colonel
JOHNSTONE, and afterwards on Major-General BALFOUR,) till 1812, when he was succeeded by Major-General
SMYTH; he having gone to England in 1813, the Government was administered by Major-General
SAUMAREZ; but was resumed by General SMYTH, in 1814, who having again left the Province, the
Government devolved on Lieutenant-Colonel HAILES. On the death of Governor CARLETON, Major-General
GEORGE STRACEY SMYTH, was appointed to the Government by His Majesty's Commission, dated the
28th February, 1817. Governor SMYTH died the 27th March, 1823, when the Government was assumed
by WARD CHIPMAN, Esquire, who administered the same till his death in the month of February
following, when it devolved on JOHN MURRAY BLISS, Esquire. In the mean time, Major-General
Sir HOWARD DOUGLAS, Baronet, had been appointed to the Government by His Majesty. He arrived
in the Province in August, 1824, and immediately repaired to Fredericton, and assumed the Government
on the 28th of the same month, and is at present (1825) Lieutenant-Governor and Commander-in-Chief
of the Province of New-Brunswick, and its Dependencies.

The lively interest which Sir HOWARD takes in whatever concerns the prosperity of the Province,
may be best inferred from his own words in his address to the Legislative Body, and his speech
at the formation of the Agricultural Society, which are inserted in full in the Appendix to
this short work.

CHAPTER II.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION.

Situation. Extent. Boundaries. Face of the Country. Soil, Animals. Mineral and Vegetable Productions.
Inhabitants, Religion, and Government.

New-Brunswick is situated between the forty-fifth and forty-ninth degrees of North latitude,
and between the sixty-fourth and sixty-eighth degrees of West longitude. It is nearly 200 miles
in length, and 180 in breadth, containing about twenty-two thousand square miles of land and
water. It is bounded on the North by the river St. Lawrence and Canada, on the West by the
State of Maine, on the South and Southeast by the Bay of Fundy and Nova-Scotia, and on the
East by the Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay Verte. It is divided into eight Counties, viz. St.
John, Westmorland, King's, Queen's, Charlotte, York, Sunbury, and Northumberland, which are
again divided into Parishes, according to their extent, and will be described when I come to
treat of the Counties separately.

This Province is watered with several fine rivers which lay open the inmost recesses of the
country, and are of the utmost advantage to the inhabitants in transporting the products of
the forests to the seaports, as their chief trade consists in lumber and other bulky articles.
It likewise abounds in lakes, streams, springs, and rivulets, so that there are few places
unprovided with good mill seats or water conveyance. It is diversified with beautiful acclivities,
hills and mountains, some of which will be noticed in the course of this work.

The appearance of the country along the Bay of Fundy is forbidding, rugged and broken, and
the soil indifferent. Advancing from the sea-board into the interior the face of the country
becomes more level, being interspersed with gentle risings and vales, with large strips of
fertile intervals along the rivers, which being annually overflowed produce excellent crops.
In many places along the margin of the rivers, the banks are high and abrupt, and to a stranger
the land appears poor and hard to cultivate; but after rising the banks, and advancing a short
distance from the water, the land becomes level, and the soil rich; being covered with a thick
black mould, produced by the putrefaction of the leaves of the numerous trees with which the
country is covered. In other parts the land rises with a beautiful slope from the water, offering
many fine situations for buildings and seats. The land in some parts being a second intervale,
and in others a good upland with a strong soil.

Most of the rivers have numbers of fine Islands interspersed in their courses, which being
chiefly formed by the washing of the currents, consist of rich alluvial soil, producing grain,
roots and grass in the greatest luxuriance. These islands may be considered as the gardens
of the country, which they enrich and beautify. The rapidity of the rivers, swoln by the melting
of the snow in the spring, tears away the soil in some parts, and deposits it in others; by
which means their courses are gradually altered; new Islands are formed, and alluvial soil
accumulated in some parts of the rivers, while it is washed away in others; and this is more
or less the case according to the looseness of the soil, and the bends of the river: so that
a man may have a growing estate, or he may see his land diminishing from year to year without
the power to remedy it.

As most of the settlements are as yet confined to the margin of rivers and streams, the country
a little back is a continued forest, covered with a stately growth of trees, consisting of
pines, firs, spruce, hemlock, maple, birch, beech, ash, elm, poplar, hornbeam, &c. In some
parts of the country white and red oak are found, but in no great quantity; although men who
have ranged the woods in search of pine, say there are large groves in the interior. The islands
are generally covered with butternut, basswood, elm, maple, alder, &c. and in some places the
same trees are found on them, as on the high land in their vicinity.

As the climate of a new country, abounding with lakes, rivers and streams, and covered with
close woods, which exclude the sun, must be daily altering as the country becomes cleared and
improved: I shall hereafter notice some of the changes that have taken place in the climate
of this Province since it was settled by the Loyalists in 1783.

The domestic animals in this Province are much the same as those in the United States; many
of the horses and oxen used in the lumber business, being annually furnished by the Americans.
The breed of horses has been improved by stallions imported at different periods from England
and other places. In Cumberland the inhabitants have paid considerable attention to the improvement
of the breed of horned cattle; in consequence of which, and the extensive marshes in that country,
their dairies are superior to any in the Province. The sheep and swine are of a good size and
various breeds. As Agriculture has been much neglected in this Province on account of the great
trade that is carried on in lumber, not much attention has been paid to improving the domestic
animals, till of late, a Society has been formed, and cattle exhibitions instituted, which
no doubt will soon make an alteration in that part of the rural economy of the Province.

The wild animals are not so numerous as formerly, and some species are nearly extinct. The
Moose or Elk, which were found in great abundance when the loyalists first came to the province,
were wantonly destroyed, being hunted for the skin, while their carcases were left in the woods,
a few only being used for food, although their flesh is equal to the Ox, and would have supplied
the destitute settlers with animal food for a long while, had there been any effectual means
at that time to restrain the waste of the mercenary hunter. So great was the destruction of
those valuable animals, that in a few years they totally disappeared. A few have lately been
seen, and a law has been enacted for their preservation; but they can scarcely be reckoned
among the present animals of the Province. The other wild animals are Bears, Foxes, Wolves,
Caraboo, Sable, Loup-cervier, Peaconks, Racoon, Mink, Ground and Red Squirrels, Weasels, Muskrats,
Wild Cats, Hares, &c. with that valuable animal the Beaver.

The domestic Fowls are Turkies, Geese, Ducks, Hens, and other Poultry; and among the wild are,
Partridges, Geese, Ducks, Pigeons, Owls, Crows, and Swans; with a variety of small Birds, which
have nothing peculiar to render a particular description of them necessary. There are but few
reptiles in the Province, and those are harmless.

Most of the rivers are well stored with Salmon, Shad, Bass, Suckers, and Herrings, with abundance
of small Fish, such as Trout, Perch, Chub, Smelt, Eels, &c. Cusks are taken in the winter,
and Sturgeon are taken in some parts, but not often.

The Bays and Harbors are well supplied with Cod, Pollock, Haddock, &c. Mackerel are taken in
different places at the entrance of the Bay of Fundy, and along the coasts.

But little can be said about the mineral or fossil productions of a country which is yet in
its infancy, and where the industry of the inhabitants can be more profitably employed on the
surface of the earth than in ransacking its bowels. Minerals cannot be procured and manufactured
without money. To work mines effectually, many things are requisite that cannot be expected
in a new country. Such as capitalists who can risk money on experiments, and wait a long time
for returns: for all property employed in the first working of mines is uncertain. The next
thing is abundance of cheap labour--then a demand for the articles produced; next to produce
it of such a quality, and at such a price as to make it find a market: with many other considerations
sufficient to deter men who feeling themselves straitened in pecuniary resources, see the necessity
of employing what little they possess in the way that will give a sure and quick return; and
to such persons, the surface of the country covered with pines, holds out a more inviting prospect
than the concealed riches of the earth. From the appearance of the country, there is reason
to believe it is rich in minerals, and that the mountains contain ores of different metals
in abundance; but as no attempts of consequence have been made to procure specimens or assay
them, it cannot be expected that any particular account of them could be given in this short
work. It is probable the time is not far distant when men of intelligence will turn their attention
to investigate scientifically the different natural productions of the Province. Coals are
found in abundance at the Grand Lake, and specimens have been discovered in several other places,
so as to leave no doubt of the Province being well stored with that useful article. Limestone
of a good quality is found in different parts of the Province; particularly at the narrows,
near the mouth of the river St. John, where there is not only sufficient for the use of the
country; but to supply Europe and America for ages, should they need it. Gypsum is also found
up the Bay, near Cumberland, and Manganese at Quaco.

This Province abounds in different kinds of excellent Stone for building, and other purposes.
Grindstones are manufactured in abundance for home use and exportation. Veins of Marble, of
different species, have been discovered, some of which have been partially explored, and small
quantities manufactured.

The vegetable productions are, Wheat, Rye, Oats, Barley, Maize, Beans, Peas, Buckwheat and
Flax, with a variety of Roots, Grasses, and Hortulan Plants.

The fruits are Apples, Plums, Cherries, Currants, Gooseberries, Cranberries, Blue and Black
Berries, Raspberries, Strawberries, and small Grapes, with a number of small wild fruits. Butter
Nuts, a large oily nut, Beech Nuts, and Hazel Nuts are found in different parts of the country
in abundance, and in many places serve for fattening hogs; particularly the Beech Nut, which
after the severe frosts in the fall nearly cover the ground.

There are no disorders peculiar to the climate. The air throughout most part of the year is
very pure and the inhabitants in general enjoy a good share of health. Whether the observations
that have been made of the Americans sooner decaying than Europeans will apply to the inhabitants
of New-Brunswick cannot yet be ascertained; as the Province has not been long enough settled;
but there is good reason to believe that with temperance and care the human frame will exist
as long in vigor in the latter as in Europe.--Another remark as a proof of the former has been
made which is that the human mind sooner arrives to maturity in America than in Europe; but
this if true may be more owing to accidental than physical causes.

Their earlier marriages likewise proves nothing as they arise from the peculiar circumstances
of the different countries.

The inhabitants of New-Brunswick may be classed as follows according to priority of settlement.

1st. The Aborigines or Indians.

2d. Acadians, being the descendants of the French who were allowed to remain in Nova-Scotia
after it was ceded to the British. They were called the French neutrals--their descendants
are at present settled in different parts of the Province and are considerably numerous and
will be noticed with the Indians hereafter.

The old Inhabitants, were those families who were settled in the Province before the conclusion
of the American revolution, as already noticed. They were so called by the disbanded troops
and refugees who came to the country in 1783, and the appellation is still applied to their
descendants. Some of those were settled at Maugerville where they had made considerable improvements
before the loyalists came to the country. A few of the old stock are still living, having attained
to a great age. Their descendants are however numerous, and by intermarriages with the new
comers, spread over every part of the Province.

The next and most numerous class of inhabitants are the descendants of the Loyalists who came
to the Province at the conclusion of the American revolution, and whose sufferings I have already
slightly noticed.--These are the descendants of those genuine patriots who sacrificed their
property and comfort in the United States for their attachment to that Government under which
they drew their first breath; and came to this Province (at that period a wilderness) to transmit
those blessings to their posterity. For although many of them belonged to the army and were
sent here to be disbanded, they had formerly been comfortably settled in the States; and when
it came to the trying point whether they should forsake their homes or abandon their King,
the former was preferred without hesitation, although many of them had young families and the
choice was made at the risk of life, and also with the change of habit from the peaceful yeoman
to the bustle of a camp.--As however the choice was made with promptness so it was persevered
in with constancy.

The other inhabitants are emigrants from different parts of Europe. In some parts they have
obtained allotments of land and are settled a number of families together, in other places
again they are intermixed with the other settlers and by intermarriages, &c. are assimilating
as one people: proving themselves in many instances, good subjects, and valuable members of
society.

The last class that I shall notice are the people of Colour, or Negroes.--These are found in
considerable numbers in different parts of the Province. In some parts a number of families
are settled together as farmers; but they do not make good settlers, being of a volatile disposition,
much addicted to dissipation; they are impatient of labour, and in general fitter for performing
menial offices about houses as domestics, than the more important, but laborious duties of
farmers.--In their persons, the inhabitants of New-Brunswick are well made, tall and athletic.
There are but few of those born in the country, but what have attained to a larger growth than
their parents.

The genius of these people differ greatly from Europeans--the human mind in new countries left
to itself exerts its full energy; hence in America where man has in most cases to look to himself
for the supply of his wants, his mind expands, and possesses resources within itself unknown
to the inhabitants of old settled countries, or populous cities. In New-Brunswick, a man with
his axe and a few other simple tools, provides himself with a house and most of his implements
of husbandry,--and while a European would consider himself as an outcast, he feels perfectly
at home in the depth of the forest. In new countries likewise the mind acquires those ideas
of self-importance and independence so peculier to Americans. For the man who spends the greater
part of his time alone in the forest, as free as the beasts that range it without controul,
his wants but simple and those supplied from day to day by his own exertions, acquires totally
different habits of acting and thinking, from the great mass of the people in crowded cities,
who finding themselves pressed on all sides, and depending on others from day to day for precarious
support, are confirmed in habits of dependence.

Hence the inhabitants of this Province are men who possess much native freedom in their manners.
This, from their veneration to their King makes them faithful subjects and good citizens, not
blindly passive, but from affection adhering to that Government under which they drew their
first breath and under which they have been reared.

In noticing the state of religion in this Province, it may not be amiss to observe that the
old inhabitants who came originally from New-England, where the genius of their church government
was republican, were generally Calvinistic in their modes and doctrine; while the loyalists
and others who came to the country in 1783, were generally Churchmen, Quakers, or Methodists.
The Emigrants who have come since that period include all the above denominations.

The Church of England is in a flourishing state in this Province; there are nineteen Clergymen
belonging to the establishment who are under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Nova-Scotia.
Many of them have handsome churches with numerous congregations. Two of them are employed as
Itinerants for the vacant districts of the Province, and several of the others serve two or
more Parishes--An Ecclesiastical Commissary has the superintendence of the whole.

The Catholics have a few Chapels and appear to be on the increase. Their congregations are
chiefly composed of Emigrant Irish, French, and Indians.--There are six Clergymen in the Province,
some of whom are settled and others are employed as Missionaries among the scattered French
and Indians.

There are but two Ministers of the Kirk of Scotland in the Province; they have handsome churches
in Saint John and St. Andrews. There are however a number of Seceders from the Presbyterian
form of Church Government, but all holding the doctrines of Calvin; several of them have commodious
places of worship, and respectable congregations.

There are no places of worship belonging to the Quakers in this Province. There are however,
a few of these primitive worshippers scattered through the country, who joining sincerity and
honesty with plainness, are excellent members of society.

The Methodists are a numerous and respectable body of people. There are four Wesleyan Missionaries
in this Province, with a number of Methodist Preachers, who although not immediately in connection
with the Missionaries, adhere strictly to the old Methodist discipline and doctrine; and usually
attend the Conferences, which are held once a year, either in Nova-Scotia or New-Brunswick;
where the Missionaries for the two Provinces and the adjacent Islands assemble to arrange the
different stations of their Preachers and regulate the affairs temporal and spiritual of that
body. At these conferences young Preachers are admitted on trial, and probationers who have
laboured four years in the Ministry to the satisfaction of the Conference, are taken into full
connection.

The Baptists are the descendants of those followers of Mr. WHITFIELD, who formerly were very
numerous under the denomination of New-Lights. About 25 or 30 years ago, a change in their
forms and discipline took place among the leaders in Nova-Scotia, who adopted the mode of Baptizing
only Adults, and the other tenets of the old Baptists whose name they also assumed. There are
however a few of the New-Lights still scattered through the country, who carrying the levelling
spirit into their religion, do not like order of any kind. They style themselves Baptists,
Christians, &c. The Baptists on the contrary have a formula of faith comprised in seventeen
articles, and are very strict in church government. They are a numerous class of people, and
have several fine Chapels; they have however but few settled Ministers, not having as yet made
sufficient provision to supply their members with a stated Ministry. They regulate their affairs
by an annual association.

In general a desire for the christian Ministry is increasing in the Province.--Places of worship
are erecting in most of the settlements, and such other provision for the support of the Gospel
provided as the abilities of the settlers will admit.

The Government of New-Brunswick, like most of the British Colonies, is Royal and a miniature
of the parent state. The other forms originally established in the Colonies and Plantations
were charter and proprietory governments, which of late years have mostly given place to royal
or monarchial governments, after the British model.

The Governor has a Council consisting of twelve Members, to assist him in the discharge of
the executive duties of his station. These with the representatives from the different Counties
constitute the Provincial Legislature.

The principal Courts established in the Province are the following.--

The Court of Chancery, which is a Prerogative Court, as well as a Court of Equity. The Lieutenant-Governor,
or Commander-in-Chief is Chancellor, and the Justices of the Supreme Court Assignees.

The Court of Governor and Council, for hearing and determining Causes relating to Marriage
and Divorce.

The Supreme Court of Judicature for the Province is held in Fredericton. It consists of the
Chief Justice and three Assistant Judges. The Terms are the third Tuesday of February and May,
and the second Tuesday of July and October. The Jurisdiction of this Court is very extensive,
partaking of the power of the Courts of King's Bench, Exchequer, Common Pleas, and other Courts
in England. All civil causes of importance and capital cases are determined in this Court.
The present Chief Justice SAUNDERS, who presides in this Court, the reader will observe, was
a Member of the first Council in the Province. He has ever since been actively employed in
the first stations in the country, which he has filled with the greatest ability and integrity.
He is the only survivor capable of filling a public station among all those who bore a share
in the public concerns of the Province on its first erection into a separate Government under
Governor CARLETON. The salary of the Chief Justice is £700 or £750 sterling. The other Justices
have each £500 sterling per annum. The Justices, besides attending the Supreme Court at the
Seat of Government, hold Circuit Courts in the different Counties.

The Inferior Court of Common Pleas consists of two, three, or more Justices, who preside occasionally.
They are assisted by the Magistrates of the County. Here civil causes that do not involve property
to a great amount are determined, as are also crimes and misdemeanors not affecting life. The
Grand Inquest of the County attends this Court, when Bills of Indictment are found, which if
involving matters above its Jurisdiction, are handed over to the Supreme Court for trial. Most
of the Police of the Counties and Parishes is regulated by this Court, which is held half-yearly
or quarterly in the several Counties, as the public business may require. Here the parish officers
are appointed, parish and county taxes apportioned; the accounts from the different parishes
audited; retailers and innkeepers licensed and regulated, &c. In short, this Court exercises
in many respects the same powers in the several Counties, in regard to their internal police,
as those that are exercised by the Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of incorporated Cities.

Besides these Courts there is a summary mode of recovering debts under five pounds before a
single Magistrate.

The Legislature of New-Brunswick, like most of the British Colonies, is a miniature of the
British Parliament, consisting of the Lieutenant-Governor, the Council, and House of Representatives.
The Governor represents the King. The Council form the upper House, in humble imitation of
the House of Lords in England; and the Representatives from the different Counties forming
the lower House, or House of Assembly. The number of Representatives for the several Counties
is as follows: For the Counties of St. John, Westmorland, Charlotte, and York, four each; the
Counties of King's, Queen's, Sunbury and Northumberland, two each; and two for the City of
St. John, making in all twenty-six. This representation, the reader will observe, is very unequal.
The County of Saint John, which includes the City, having two more members than the extensive
County of York, which includes the Seat of Government; and the County of Sunbury, which is
not as large as some parishes in the other counties, has as many members as the County of Northumberland,
which comprises over one-third of the Province. It must indeed be admitted that Saint John
and Sunbury are far better settled than Northumberland; but when we look at the great extent
of the latter, the numerous settlements and great trade in that part of the Province, we must
allow that the inhabitants of that part of the country have not an equal share of what may
be considered the bulwark of liberty--namely, a fair representation. Six members at least,
would not be out of proportion for that large County.

The Assembly sits in the winter at Fredericton: the sessions continue from six to seven weeks.
Its chief business is in managing the provincial revenue, providing for schools, roads, &c.
and making such laws as the state and trade of the Province may from time to time require.
When laws are enacted that interfere with Acts of Parliament, they are transmitted to the King,
with a suspending clause, and are not in force until they receive the royal approbation.

CHAPTER III.

Climate. Produce.

As New-Brunswick lies in nearly the same parallel of latitude as Paris, Vienna, and other places
in Europe, it would be natural to suppose the climate would be similar to those places; but
it must be observed that cold is found to predominate on the continent of America. Hence in
places under the same parallels, the differences between the old and new continents, with regard
to cold, is very great, and this difference increases as you advance from the equator. This
has been supposed by Dr. Robertson and others to arise from the western situation of America,
and its approaching the pole nearer than Europe or Asia, and from the immense continent stretching
from the St. Lawrence towards the pole and to the westward; and also from the enormous chain
of mountains which extend to an unknown distance through that frozen region, covered with eternal
snow and frost; over which the wind in its passage acquires that piercing keenness which is
felt as far as the Gulf of Mexico, but more severely in the Canadas, New-Brunswick, and Nova-Scotia.

The prevailing winds, from October to April, are from the north and north-west, during most
of which period the air, though frequently intensely keen, is clear and healthy. December is
a temperate, pleasant winter month. In January the heavy falls of snow commence, and the drifting
storms prevail chiefly in February and March; but these are not so frequent as formerly, and
the major part of the winter is clear, hard weather.

In April the spring commences, and the winds are chiefly from the east north-east, which occasion
dull, heavy weather. The rivers, lakes, and streams break up this month. As May advances, the
weather becomes settled, and the mornings are uncommonly fine. The sun, which rises a little
after four o'clock, diffuses his beams in full splendor through an unclouded sky. This is the
usual month for sowing and planting on the high land. The intervale and low lands are generally
later in drying, and are generally cultivated in June. The prevailing winds in the summer are
from the south and south-west, veering at times to the eastward, but never continuing long
to the north-west. In the first part of June the cold is considerable at night, frequently
attended with frosts, particularly at the changes of the moon, which sometimes injure the early
flowering fruits; and it is not till after the summer solstice that the night air loses its
chilliness. This is no doubt occasioned by the snow, which lies undissolved in the deep recesses
of the forest, as well as by the waters of the numerous rivers, lakes, &c. all which are swoln
at this season; and by the cold acquired by the earth during the winter, which requires the
full effect of the sun's influence, till late in June, before it is sufficiently heated. As
soon as the earth is so thoroughly warmed that the nights lose their chill, vegetation becomes
surprisingly rapid. In a few days, plants that appeared yellow and stunted, assume a deep green,
and show a vigorous growth; and in less than a week, should a shower intervene, the face of
the country exhibits the most luxurious vegetation, sufficient to astonish those who have only
been familiar with temperate climates.

September is a pleasant month: the air is serene and pure. The rivers and streams are usually
lower this month than at any other period during the year, and the dry weather frequently continues
till late in October. Snow falls sometimes early in November, and lays till late in April;
but this does not always hold. The rivers and lakes freeze up about the middle of this month,
some sooner and others later, according to their situation. It is not uncommon to have frost
in all the months in the year except July: for, as was observed before, it seldom escapes at
the changes of the moon in June, and it frequently happens at the full in August, particularly
on small streams. If, however, it passes that period, it generally keeps off till late in September.
A stranger would naturally conclude from this account, that the season was too short and frosty
for crops to come to maturity; but this is not the case. Roots come to perfection and grain
gets ripe in most years; wheat being oftener hurt by the rust than the frost. The springs are
indeed backward; but vegetation is exceeding rapid, and the autumns are uncommonly fine. The
changes of the weather are frequently very sudden. Often in the space of two hours, (in the
seasons of fall and spring,) changing from the mild temperature of September to the rigor of
winter. This is chiefly occasioned by the wind: for while it blows from any of the points from
the S.W. to the N.E. the air is mild; but when it veers from the N.E. to the N.W. it becomes
cold and clear; and as it frequently shifts very suddenly, the transition from heat to cold
is equally short. Even in the sultry month of July, whenever the wind changes for a few hours
to the N.W. the air becomes cool, elastic, and invigorating. This, as was before noticed, is
occasioned by its passing over the immense continent to the northwestward, and Hudson's Bay
to the northward. On the contrary, when the winds are from the southward and S.E. they are
mild and relaxing, retaining a portion of the heat acquired in the torrid zone. The changes,
however, are not always so violent. The weather often both in winter and summer, continues
for weeks with little alteration in the temperature, and changes imperceptibly. The coldest
weather generally felt in the country, is on or near the full moon in January; for it is not
till after the cold has had some time to exert its full influence and chill the earth, that
the full rigor of winter is experienced. The same is the case with the greatest heat in summer,
being in July, after the sun has for some time exerted his full influence on the earth.--From
observations made by several persons, it is well understood that a gradual change has been
taking place in the climate on the American continent within a century past. The change in
this Province since 1783, has been very great--the summers having abated much of their former
heat, and the winters grown proportionately milder. Neither are there such excessive droughts
in summer, as formerly; the seasons being cooler, with more rain; neither does the snow accumulate
to such a depth on the earth. This may arise not so much from a less quantity falling, as from
the frequent thaws which now take place in the winter season.

For several years prior to 1816, the seasons had been growing gradually cooler--less warmth
being felt on a mean in each succeeding year till 1816, when the cold appeared to have arrived
at its acme; for in that year it appeared to predominate: from whatever cause has not yet been
ascertained. Some ascribed it to spots on the sun's disc; others supposed that large masses
of ice had been detached from the shores of Greenland, and floated so near America as to occasion
the uncommon chill of the air,--with other conjectures of a like nature, totally unsatisfactory.
For spots have frequently been observed on the sun, and it would require an immense quantity
of ice to produce any permanent effect.--Whatever might have been the cause, it is certain
the genial warmth of the sun appeared nearly lost: for when shining in meridian splendour in
the months of June and July, a cold rigorous air was felt. There was a fall of snow, which
was general over the Province and extended to the United States, on the 7th June, to the depth
of three or four inches in the northern parts of the country. This was followed by severe frosts
in every month in that year. The crops were very light: fields of wheat were totally destroyed.
Even the never failing potatoe was chilled and did not yield half a crop.

After this year the seasons began slowly to improve; but the shock given to agriculture, by
the failure of several crops, brought great distress on the poor, and gave a check to the prosperity
of the Province. So great was the distress of the country, that the Legislature applied £6,000
to be laid out in seed and provisions, and advanced to such as were in want on a credit. For
a few years back the seasons have been favorable to agriculture; but the extremes of heat and
cold in winter and summer are not so great, and the rains are more generally diffused through
the year than formerly.

I have been thus particular in noticing the changes of the seasons, as I think it would be
a great advantage to the Province if a correct register of the weather was kept, and the changes
of the seasons particularly attended to, as it would furnish data to guide the farmer in his
crops, by sowing more of the hardy grains, such as oats, barley, peas, &c. as the seasons,
(judging by a comparison with former years) was likely to be warm or frosty; and not running
so much on Indian corn, which always requires hot seasons. Had this been attended to in the
cold seasons, less distress would have been felt in the country, as oats, barley, &c. generally
did well, when the other crops failed.

As I observed before, several causes have been assigned for the difference between the climate
of Europe and America, by persons who have investigated that subject. But the causes of the
alteration that has taken place in the seasons in North America, remain yet a desideratum with
the learned. Whether the alteration is occasioned by the precession of the equinoxes, or by
the position of our globe with the other planets, (for changes no doubt are taking place in
the great system of the universe, which, though slow, must produce powerful effects,) or from
whatever cause it may be, the effects are visible, and cannot reasonably be wholly ascribed
to the improvement of the country, or any alteration that has taken place in it.

New-Brunswick appears to be but little liable to the great convulsions of nature, such as earthquakes,
hurricanes, tornadoes, &c. There has been but one shock of an earthquake experienced by the
present inhabitants since they have settled the country. This shock happened on the 22d May,
1817, at 25 minutes past three o'clock in the morning. The duration of the shock was about
45 seconds. It was attended with the usual rumbling noise, without thunder, the weather being
very serene and pleasant. The appearances, however, usually indicating earthquakes, such as
fiery meteors, the uncommon brilliancy of the aurora borealis, &c. had been frequent the winter
preceding.

I shall now proceed to notice the principal grains, roots, and grasses cultivated in the Province,
and give as correct an account of their produce, &c. as the imperfect state of the agriculture
of the country will allow.

Wheat is sown from five pecks to two bushels to an acre, and yields from twelve to twenty-four
bushels per acre. Twenty bushels is a good crop, on new land, although it sometimes produces
more, when the soil is very rich and the season favourable. On old land the return is from
ten to fifteen bushels per acre, the mean is about twelve. Rye is grown on inferior lands.
It takes about the same quantity of seed to the acre, and gives much the same returns.

Oats are much cultivated in this country, and generally turn out a good crop. The quantity
of seed is from two to three bushels, and the produce from twenty to thirty bushels per acre.
Barley is not much cultivated, although it would do well as a substitute in frosty seasons.

Buckwheat is a grain that gives a large return for the quantity sown. It is raised on lands
that are too poor to produce good crops of the other grains, and sown later in the season,
so that the greatest summer heat may be past before the grain is formed in the ear; for should
there be a few very hot days when the grain is in the milk, the crop would be destroyed. The
same would be the case, if a slight frost should strike it in that stage. If, however, it escapes
these casualties, to which it is liable, it turns out a good crop, yielding from forty to sixty
bushels to an acre. There is a species of wild Buckwheat, which is a surer crop, but of an
inferior quality.

Millet has lately been introduced into the Province. It is said to do well on most lands, but
has not been much attended to.

Indian Corn or Maize, flourishes in high perfection on the intervales, which are generally
composed of alluvial soil. It is usually planted in hills nearly four feet asunder. Five grains
is the usual quantity for a hill. It is a plant that requires a light rich soil, old manure,
and hot seasons; should these requisites concur, a good crop may be expected. It is usually
hoed thrice, and produces from twenty-five to forty bushels per acre.

Pease are a hardy grain, and produce from ten to fifteen bushels to an acre.

Beans are usually set in drills; they thrive well on light sandy lands, but are not much cultivated
in the country.

Among the ground crops or roots, the most valuable is the Potatoe--a root that can never be
sufficiently prized, as affording one of the most productive and surest substitutes for bread
of any known, and without which it would have been extremely difficult to have colonized these
Provinces. This may be reckoned the surest crop, and is peculiarly well adapted to new countries,
as it thrives best on new burnt land. The usual and simplest method of cultivating this root
is by planting cuttings of it in hills, about three feet asunder. This method is peculiarly
convenient on land newly cut down, as the seed is set with the hoe between the stumps and roots
with which the ground is covered, and where the plough or harrow could be of no service. They
are generally hoed once in the season, and turn out in the fall a large crop of clean, smooth
potatoes, of a superior flavour to those grown on old lands. The produce is from 150 to 200
bushels from an acre; although they sometimes greatly exceed that quantity.--They are an excellent
crop for improving new lands; for as the culture is all performed with the hoe or hack, the
small roots of the stumps are destroyed in planting and digging; for wherever there is room
to drop an eye, it never fails to vegetate, working under roots and around stones, so that
in the autumn the farmer has frequently to cut away or dig under roots for his crop, which
often exceeds his expectation. In some parts of the Province, where the lands have been long
in cultivation, drilling is practised, and the labour chiefly performed with the plough and
harrow; and of late the Irish method of setting them in beds has been introduced. There are
many varieties of this root cultivated in the Province; but no attention has been paid to renewing
the seed from the ball, which no doubt would improve the quality as well as the produce.

Several kinds of Turnips are cultivated in this Province; the best of which is the ruta-baga,
or Swedish turnip. This is an excellent root and cultivated with great success, particularly
on new lands. They differ from the common field turnip, being of a firm texture they keep the
year round; while the common turnip turns soft and unfit for use after the winter sets in.
They, however, answer a good purpose for early use and for cattle, being sown late in July,
after the other crops are out of the way. The Swedish turnip is sown early in June. All the
sowing in this country is broad-cast, the method of drilling being scarcely known.

The other roots are, beets, carrots, parsnips, onions, radishes, &c. which are chiefly cultivated
in gardens. There are a variety of cabbages, sallads, cauliflowers, squashes, &c. which are
also cultivated in the gardens with great success.

The principal grasses produced in the country, are white and red clover, timothy, lucerne,
browntop, &c. Good uplands produce one and a half tons per acre, and the intervale from two
to three tons. There are several species of wild grass, such as blue-joint, &c. found in meadows,
in the woods, and along streams, which make very good food for young stock.

As no regular catalogue of the various species of indigenous plants has yet been made in this
country, it would be useless to attempt anything like a correct, minute enumeration of them
in this concise sketch. I shall, therefore, prosecute this part of the subject no farther,
as I think the time is not far distant when this branch of the rural economy of the Province
will be particularly attended to; and that the Societies which have lately been formed for
that purpose, will not only develope and improve the native productions of the country, but
introduce different species of exotics, as they find them answer the soil and climate.

CHAPTER IV.

PRINCIPAL RIVERS AND TOWNS.

River St. Croix. St. John. Miramichi. Mars-Hill. City of St. John. Fredericton. St. Andrews.

Having in the preceding chapters given a brief sketch of the settlement and face of the country,
and noticed its climate, productions, &c. I shall now proceed to give a short description of
the principal rivers, mountains, and towns, beginning with the

RIVER SAINT CROIX.

This river was made the boundary between the territories of His Britannic Majesty and the United
States, by the treaty of 1783 which describes the bounds as follows, viz. It is also probable
that it was not precisely known at that time what river was meant by the St. Croix, but that
another river, more to the westward, might have been intended. This uncertainty about the rivers
at that time might have arisen from the general name of St. Croix, which was given by Europeans
to all the rivers falling into the Bay of Fundy, occasioned by the French on their first landing
in the country, having erected crosses at different points, and named the places from that
circumstance, the country of the Holy Cross. However it may have happened, difficulties ensued
in ascertaining the precise Islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy belonging to each power, and
the Highlands meant by the treaty of 1783. This induced the Commissioners of the two Powers
at the treaty of Ghent to provide against any misunderstanding on these points for the future,
by the fourth and fifth articles of that treaty. The said Commissioners shall meet at St. Andrews,
in the Province of New-Brunswick, and shall have power to adjourn to such other place or places
as they shall think fit. The said Commissioners shall have power to ascertain and determine
the points above-mentioned, in conformity with the provisions of the said treaty of peace of
1783, and shall cause the boundaries aforesaid, from the source of the river St. Croix to the
river Iroquois or Cataraquy to be surveyed and marked according to the said provisions: the
Commissioners shall make a map of the said boundary, and annex to it a declaration under their
hands and seals, certifying it to be the true map of the said boundary, and particularizing
the latitude and longitude of the north-west angle of Nova-Scotia, of the north-westernmost
head of Connecticut river, and of such other points of the said boundary as they may deem proper.
And both parties agree to consider such map and declaration as finally and conclusively fixing
the said boundary. And in the event of the said Commissioners differing or both or either of
them refusing, declining, or wilfully omitting to act, such reports, declarations, or statements
shall be made by them, or either of them, and such reference to a friendly sovereign or state
shall be made in all respects, as in the latter part of the fourth article is contained."--The
fourth article here alluded to provides that "such sovereign or state shall decide ex-parte
upon the said report alone, and His Britannic Majesty and the Government of the United States
engage to consider the decision of such friendly sovereign or state to be final and conclusive
on all matters to them referred."--Notwithstanding these precautions on the part of the Agents
of the two Governments, the points alluded to are not yet ascertained or settled.

But to resume the description of the river. The St. Croix has two main branches, one inclines
to the eastward, and communicates with a chain of lakes, some of which are of considerable
extent, and lie near a branch of the Penobscot river. The other turns to the westward. From
this branch there is a route by a succession of lakes and short portages to the waters that
fall into the river St. John. The lands on the banks of this river are of good quality, and
have been well timbered; most of the pine has been cut off, but there is still abundance of
other timber, consisting of the harder woods, spruce, firs, &c. There are mills erected on
different parts of this river, which furnish a great quantity of sawed lumber annually.

There are several falls in the river, which obstruct the navigation. There are, however, several
fine settlements along its banks, and the adjoining country is first improving.

RIVER SAINT JOHN.

This noble river encircles a large portion of New-Brunswick, and may be considered as the principal
drain of those numerous rivers and streams with which the Province is intersected. Winding
in an irregular semi-circle, it traverses an extent of about five hundred miles, and falls
into the Bay of Fundy nearly in the same parallel of latitude in which it takes its rise.

It may not be improper to observe, that most of the rivers and streams in this country were
originally named by the Indians, who generally, by the names they give, wish to signify something
peculiar to the thing named; consequently the Indian name of this river, which they call "Looshtook,"
signifies long river.--It rises from lakes near the head of Connecticut river, between the
45th and 46th degrees of north latitude, and stretches to the northward, beyond the 47th degree
of north latitude, where it receives the waters of the Madawaska river, which rises near the
St. Lawrence. It then inclines to the southward, and continues its course uninterrupted, receiving
several large streams, till it arrives at the Grand Falls, in lat. 46° 54'. Here its channel
is broken by a chain of rocks, which run across the river at this place, over which its waters
are precipitated with resistless impetuosity. The river, just above the cataract, makes a short
bend of nearly a right angle, forming a small bay a few rods above the precipice, in which
there is an eddy, which makes it a safe landing place, although very near the main precipice,
where canoes pass with the greatest safety. Immediately below this bay, the river suddenly
contracts. A point of rocks project from the western shore and narrow the channel to the width
of a few rods. The waters thus pent up sweep over the rugged bottom with great rapidity; just
before they reach the main precipice they rush down a descent of some feet, and rebound in
foam from a bed of rocks on the edge of the fall. They are then precipitated down perpendicular
cliffs of about forty-five feet in height, into an abyss studded with rocks, which nearly choke
the passage, leaving only a small opening in the centre, through which the water, after whirling
for some time in the bason, rushes with tremendous impetuosity, sweeping through a broken rocky
channel and a succession of falls for more than half a mile, being closely pent up with rocks,
which in some places overhang the river so as to hide most part of it from the view of the
observer. Trees and timber, which are carried down the falls, are sometimes whirled round in
the bason below the precipice till they are ground to pieces; sometimes their ends are tapered
to a point, and at other times broken or crushed in different places. Below the falls there
is another small bay with a good depth of still water, very convenient for collecting timber,
&c. after it has escaped through the falls. Here the canoes and boats from Fredericton and
different parts of the river land, and if bound for Madawaska they are taken out of the water
and carried or drawn, as well as their loads, across the isthmus to the small bay above the
falls before mentioned, where they are again put in the water, and proceed without any farther
interruption to the upper settlements and the Canada line. The distance of the portage, including
the windings of the road up the hill is about 100 rods from water to water. Flat bottomed boats,
from fifteen to twenty tons burthen, can come from St. John to this place, which is a distance
of about two hundred and twenty-three miles. No larger craft than canoes have as yet been used
above the falls. This has not arisen from any defect in the river, which above the falls is
smooth and of sufficient depth for large vessels; but from the habits of the French settlers,
who are partial to canoes, which they set through the rapids with poles at a great rate, and
with which they shoot the cataracts and rapids with great address.

About a mile below the landing place a succession of rapids commence. The first from their
appearance are called the white rapids. The banks are here every high, and the water being
pent up by a narrow channel, rushes through the beds of rocks which nearly cross the river,
and whirling about in their passage are forced over and around the crags in sheets of foam.
A few miles below the falls the river is increased by the junction of the Salmon, Restook,
and Tobique rivers, which will be noticed hereafter. It then continues its course without interruption,
receiving every few miles some considerable streams, till it reaches the Maductic Falls. Its
course is nearly south, and its width about a quarter of a mile, occasionally widening and
contracting from the Grand Falls to Woodstock, where it widens to near a mile and forms several
fine Islands. It afterwards diminishes, and strips of intervale narrow its bed.

At the Maductic Falls its channel is again nearly choked up with rocks. The navigation, however,
is not totally interrupted, for rafts, boats, and small craft in their descent are run through
the falls by persons well acquainted with the channel; and in their ascent they are towed through
with men or horses, and but few accidents happen, considering the numbers that navigate the river.

As the bed of the river is frequently encumbered with rocks and sand-bars, the navigation is
very difficult at the dry time of the year. The current is likewise swift in many places, and
rapids are frequent, till within six miles of Fredericton, where they end.

About nine miles above Fredericton the river suddenly widens and receives the Madam-Keswick.
Here is a group of fertile islands, some of which are over a mile in length, and nearly as
broad. At Fredericton the river is about three quarters of a mile wide, and flows with a beautiful
unbroken current to the falls near the City of Saint John.--A number of fine Islands are scattered
in different parts of its bed. These Islands are composed of rich alluvial soil, and produce
large crops of grass and grain. Being formed by the washings of the river, they are like garden
spots scattered through the country. About nine miles from St. John the river widens into a
bay nearly six miles long and three wide. The river Kennebeckasis falls into this bay. At the
foot of the bay it suddenly contracts, and winds through a crooked passage called the narrows,
and again opens and forms a small bay directly above the falls. Here the current is again broken
by a bed of rocks, and suddenly contracted by the near approach of the banks which appear to
have been formerly united and forced asunder by some convulsion of nature. From the appearance
of the rocks on each side it is probable that the water having been pent up in the small bay
just noticed, have in their efforts to escape undermined the land and rocks at this place,
and forced a subterraneous passage, which by wearing, aided by some violent concussion, has
caused the rocks to fall in, when the earth being washed away by the rapidity of the current,
has left the present passage open, and that the split-rock and the bed of the channel is part
of the former overhanging rocks.

For that the bed of the channel consists of cragged rocks of various shapes and sizes, is evident
from the whirlpools and eddies at that place. These falls make a tremendous roaring at certain
periods. After passing the falls, it forms the harbour of St. John, and falls into the Bay
of Fundy in lat. 45° 20' N.

The spring tides at St. John rise from twenty-four to twenty-eight feet. The body of the river
is seventeen and a half feet above low water mark. When the tide has flowed twelve feet, the
falls are smooth and passable from fifteen to twenty minutes. They are level three and a half
hours on the flood, and two and a half on the ebb, and passable four times in twenty-four hours.
Above the falls the tides rise four feet. At Maugerville, seventy miles up the river, they
rise from one to two feet; at Fredericton from six to ten inches, and are perceivable nine
miles above that place, varying according to the phases of the moon. In the spring, the river,
swoln with rains and the melting of the snow and ice, rises higher than the tides, which prevents
vessels from ascending the falls for some weeks.

RIVER MIRAMICHI.

This is one of the finest rivers for lumber in the Province. Its banks as well as the banks
of the numerous streams that fall into it, are covered with pines of the finest growth, which
appear to be almost inexhaustable, for although lumbering has been prosecuted on this river
to a great extent for a number of years past, there is still abundance found by going a little
back from the water. It is indeed the main source of the trade of the large County of Northumberland.
One hundred and forty-one thousand three hundred and eighty-four tons of timber were shipped
at the port of Miramichi in 1824. Rafts are taken down this river with the greatest safety
to the shipping, which load at different places from the mouth of the river up to Fraser's
Island. It has two main branches called the north-west and south-west, which run a great way
into the country, and with their numerous streams lay open the inmost recesses of this extensive
County. Several fine islands lay in the course of this river, covered with elm, ash, butternut,
&c. which invariably denote the most luxurious soil. Its waters are well stored with excellent
salmon and other fish, which are caught here in great abundance. There are several settlements
along this river, none of which merit a particular description, the improvement of the country
being neglected for lumbering. The branches of this river approach in several places very near
to streams falling into the river St. John, which communicate by short portages. As I have
never been able to procure correct information about the sources of this river or its length,
I have not the means of satisfying the reader on these points, but must dismiss the subject
with these few particulars, being all I could obtain.

As was observed in the commencement of this work, this country is so intersected with rivers,
streams, and lakes, that with small portages persons can go to most parts of the Province in
a canoe. There is a route from the Madawaska river to the Bay of Chaleur, and another from
the river St. John by the Grand River, which is fifteen miles above the Great Falls, to the
Ristagouche. The river Chicktahawk, which falls into the St. John near the Presque-Isle, runs
near a branch of the Miramichi; a short portage connects the route. The route from the St.
Croix to the St. John is first by a chain of lakes with short portages, and next by Eel river,
which falls into the St. John about fifty miles above Fredericton. There is another route from
the St. John to the Miramichi, by the way of the Jemseg, through the Grand Lake and up Salmon
river, from whence there is a short portage to the river Etienne which falls into the Miramichi;
with several other such communications where the streams of the different large rivers nearly
approach each other.

The Mountains and Hills with which the Province is diversified, have nothing peculiar to merit
a particular description, except Mars Hill, which has excited considerable interest, being
supposed by the British Commissioners under the treaty of Ghent to be the height of land intended
by the treaty of 1783, and that consequently the boundary line between the territories of the
United States and the British Provinces should take a new direction at that place. This is
resisted by the American Commissioners, who wish to prolong the line beyond that point. This
is an object of great importance to the two powers, for should the line be continued in the
old direction, which at this point approaches very near the river St. John, it would cross
that river a little above the Grand Falls, and would not only separate New-Brunswick and Canada,
but likewise give the Americans the upper part of the County of York which joins Canada, with
a large Settlement of French at Madawaska--Mars Hill lies about six miles from the river St.
John, on the western side, about one hundred miles above Fredericton. It can be seen from the
high lands on the opposite side of the river, and appears at that distance majestically towering
above the adjacent country. On approaching the mountain the woods are open and the ascent commences
with an easy swell about half a mile from the main hill, after which the ascent is more abrupt,
and in some parts nearly perpendicular. Having reached the crest, the spectator has a clear
expanse of horizon, being completely above the surrounding country. From hence he views a boundless
forest beneath his feet. The hills appear like waves covered with their green foliage of different
shades, from the various sorts of trees with which their brows are covered. In different places
the more elevated hills appear rising above the others like towers. Facing the river St. John,
he beholds Moose Mountain at about nine miles distant on the opposite side of the river, which
is nearly as high as Mars Hill, and perpendicular on the north side. To his left are a range
of lofty hills on the Restook; to his right he has a distant view of Houlton-plantation, and
in his rear, as far as his eye can reach, are the lofty Catardhan Mountains on the Penobscot
river; the intermediate space exhibiting an undulating forest of boundless variety of hills
and vallies, lakes, &c. The whole forming a grand and interesting spectacle. The Mountain is
about three miles in length, very narrow, and divided by a hollow near the centre. A small
spot has been cut down on each end of the hill, and a temporary observatory erected by the
Commissioners under the treaty of Ghent.

The Americans have laid out a settlement in this part of the country, which takes in Mars Hill.
The base of the mountain is washed by the Presque-Isle river, and other streams which fall
into the river St. John.

The principal Towns in New-Brunswick are SAINT JOHN, FREDERICTON, and SAINT ANDREWS; which
on account of their importance and situation will be treated of separately. Leaving the other
places to be noticed as they occur in the description of the several Counties, I shall proceed
to give a short description of the situation, trade, public buildings, and institutions of
the places just mentioned; commencing with the

CITY OF SAINT JOHN.

The City of St. John is situated in the county of that name, on a rocky peninsula at the estuary
of the river St. John, in lat. 45° 20´ north, long. 66° 3´ west. The city comprehends both
sides of the river. The district on the eastern side of the harbour, formerly called the township
of Parr, and Carleton on the western side. It is divided into six wards, two of which are in
Carleton and four in St. John, properly so called. It contains, according to the late census,
8,488 inhabitants of all descriptions.

Like most English towns, the streets in St. John intersect each other at right angles. They
are in some parts well built up, the houses being of different heights and joining each other
for some distance, forming several fine ranges of buildings. The first houses in this place
were constructed of wood, many of them were low and ill shaped. These when removed by fires
or other causes, are generally replaced with handsome brick buildings, which is making a great
improvement in the appearance of the city. The streets, likewise, which were formerly nearly
impassable from rocks, hills and chasms, are rapidly improving; hollows have been filled up,
and rocks cut away; so that although the hills in some parts are still steep, yet carriages
drive through most part of the city with the greatest safety.

A projecting point near the entrance of the harbour, has caused the different parts of the
city to be distinguished by the name of the upper and lower coves; the latter of which has
been much neglected till lately, Government having built a handsome range of Barracks on the
point fronting the Bay of Fundy, and removed the troops, &c. from Fort Howe to that station,
it is beginning to improve.

Most all the trade of the city is carried on in the upper part of the town, where there are
a number of warehouses, stores, wharves, and other conveniences for lading and unlading ships.
The tides rise to such a height that large ships can lay at the wharves and discharge with
the greatest safety.

The harbour is convenient and safe, and capable of containing a great number of vessels of
the largest description. Partridge Island lies at the entrance, on which there is a light house,
and signal station, where signals are carefully attended to and made on the first approach
of vessels. These signals are repeated at Fort Howe. Within the island there is a bar which
extends from the western side, and passes the lower point of the peninsula, on which the city
stands. It has a beacon on the outer end, and a buoy to direct vessels coming or going. The
bar is dry at ebb tides, but within the harbour there is sufficient water for the largest ships.
The tide ebbs and flows from sixteen to twenty-four feet perpendicular in this harbour. A pier
has been constructed at the entrance of the harbour for the protection of the shipping.

St. John carries on a brisk trade with Europe, the West Indies and the United States, in lumber
of different descriptions, fish, gypsum, grindstones, &c.; but the staple article is squared
timber, one hundred and fourteen thousand one hundred and sixteen tons of which were shipped
from this port in 1824. Ship-building has also been lately revived here and prosecuted to a
considerable extent. Sixty vessels were registered at this port in 1824, whose tonnage amounted
to sixteen thousand four hundred and eighty-nine tons, besides three ships and five brigs not
in the above estimate. Part of these were built in St. John, and the remainder up the rivers
and along the coasts for merchants in the city.

The city of St. John contains two Churches on the eastern side of the river, one of which is
neatly finished and has an elegant organ; A handsome Kirk belonging to the members of the Church
of Scotland; a Catholic Chapel; two Methodist Chapels, one belonging to the Wesleyan Methodists,
and the other to a number of that persuasion who seceded with Mr. Priestley, and a neat Baptist
Meeting-House.--The other public buildings are a Poor House, a Gaol, a Marine Hospital, with
two handsome ranges of Barracks lately erected at the Lower Cove, with Government Stores, Houses,
&c.

A square near York-Point, reserved for a Market, &c. has an old building in the centre, the
upper part of which has served for many years as a Court-House, and the under part as a flesh
market; a fish and vegetable market having been lately built contiguous to it, at the edge
of high water mark, and a handsome flesh market in the Lower Cove, which are generally well
supplied. King's-square is situated on the height of land in King-street, and is reserved for
public uses. It is a very pleasant situation commanding a fine view of the city and harbour.
It is in contemplation to erect a Court House on the East side of this square on a liberal
scale.--Queen's-square is situated in Duke's Ward, and is also reserved for public uses.

The Public Seminaries in St. John, are a Grammar School, the Central Madras School, and a number
of Sunday Schools.

There are two Public Libraries in the City, a Vaccine Establishment, three Printing Offices,
with the following religious, humane, and useful Societies:--

1. A Branch of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.

2. The New-Brunswick Auxiliary Bible Society.

3. Saint John Sunday School Union Society.

4. Saint John Religious Tract Society.

5. Saint George's              }

6. Saint Patrick's Societies.  } Societies.

7. Saint Andrew's              }

Instituted for the purpose of aiding their respective countrymen in distress.

8. New-Brunswick Society for the improvement of the breed of Horses and other Cattle.

9. Female Benevolent Society, for the relief of indigent females, and a Branch of the Wesleyan
Missionary Society.

A Provincial Bank is established here with a capital of £30,000, and increased by an Act of
the Legislature in 1825 to £50,000. This Bank has been found of considerable advantage in facilitating
the trade of the City by discounting Bills, &c. but it may more properly be called the St.
John, than the Province Bank, as it only transacts business within the City.

A Marine Insurance Company, and a Water Company have lately been incorporated; the latter is
not yet in active operation.

Here is a Chamber of Commerce for the regulation of the trade of the City, and a Savings' Bank
for depositing the small savings of the Laboring Classes. Carleton on the opposite side of
the river is comprehended in the limits of the City. It is situated on the point, fronting
Navy Island, and comprises the ruins of old Fort Frederick. It contains a neat Church, and
Meeting House, with several fine buildings. It has a good fishery and is fast improving. Saint
John being an incorporated City, is governed by a Mayor, Recorder, six Aldermen, with an equal
number of Assistants, under the style of "The Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of the City of
St. John." The other officers are a Sheriff and Coroner (who likewise act for the County of
St. John) a Common Clerk, a Chamberlain, a High Constable, six inferior ones, and two Marshals.

The Mayor, Recorder, Common Clerk, Sheriff, and Coroner, are appointed by the Governor, and
hold their offices during his pleasure from year to year.

The Aldermen, Assistants, and inferior Constables are chosen annually by the Freemen of the City.

The Chamberlain is appointed by the Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen, and Assistants, in Common Council.

The Mayor appoints the High Constable, Marshals, Cryers, Porters, Bell-ringers, &c.

The Mayor or Recorder, with three Aldermen and three Assistants, constitute a Common Council,
with power to make Laws, Ordinances, &c. which are to remain in force for one year only, unless
confirmed by the Governor and Council. They also constitute a Court of Record or Inferior Court
of Common Pleas for the City and County of St. John. The terms of this Court are quarterly,
and it takes cognizance of all causes from five pounds value to fifty pounds, in which titles
of land shall not come in question: and by an Act of the Provincial Legislature, its Jurisdiction
is enlarged to all transitory actions of any value.

It may be observed that the Mayor by virtue of his office possesses extensive powers; such
as making Free Citizens, regulating the Markets, &c.; and that the Aldermen are Justices of
the Peace for the County as well as for the City of St. John.

The Corporation can hold real property to the amount of £2,000 per annum, within or without
the City. They have at present an annual revenue of about £2,000 at their sole disposal for
the improvement of the City.

It must, however, be observed that no great attention has yet been paid to ornamenting the
City. This arises in some measure from the peculiar cast of its inhabitants. The men of independent
property, and those holding high offices in the different departments being too few to do much,
although some of them have fine seats, and many of the Merchants engaged in the shipping business,
being transient persons, who from time to time come to the Province, and whose main object
is to make as much as they can, in as short a time as possible, with the intention of soon
returning to enjoy their gains in their native country. These persons do not feel that interest
in the improvement of the place, that those do whose interests are identified with the country.
Having, therefore, no local attachment to the soil, it is no wonder that they should extend
their views no farther than present convenience. Such persons, then, who are to be found in
all the ports of the Province add nothing to the wealth of the country, but rather act as drains
to it. A few seats have, however, lately been begun on the Marsh near the City, which will
soon make an alteration in the appearance of the Suburbs.

Some small improvement is much wanted at the Quays for the convenience of the Public and protection
of Goods from the mud. This could be easily effected by laying sleepers and covering them with
strong plank and running a railing along the margin. This would obviate the inconvenience so
much felt at present by persons transacting business on the wharves, who have to walk or rather
wade, day after day, through the mud. It would also facilitate the transfer of Goods, by keeping
them in better order, and prevent many accidents which are yearly occurring by sailors and
others falling off.

FREDERICTON.

Is situated in the County of York, on the west side of the river Saint John on an extensive
flat opposite the Nashwaack, formerly called Saint Anns point. The river forms an elbow in
front of the town, and the hills encircle the plain, and approach the river about two miles
above the town leaving a spot of low land nearly four miles in length and in places over a
mile in breadth.

The town is laid out in squares of eighteen lots containing one quarter of an acre each. The
streets cross at right angles. Those that run parallel with the river are more than a mile
in length, and are in places considerably well built up; the houses are all of wood and of
different heights.

The inhabitants are the descendents of the Loyalists who came to the Province at the close
of the American revolution, with a mixture of Europeans and Americans.

Fredericton being the seat of Government, contains besides a residence for the Lieutenant-Governor,
a Provincial Hall, where the Supreme Courts and General Assemblies are held. This building
contains a spacious room for the Supreme Courts, with several Jury rooms, a Council Chamber,
and an Assembly Room, with other apartments and conveniences for the Legislative Body. Adjoining
this building are the Offices of the Surveyor General and Secretary of the Province.--The other
public buildings are a handsome square of Barracks with a Parade in front, where part of a
Regiment of foot are usually quartered.-Barracks and Store-houses for a company of Royal Artillery
with other buildings for the use of the troops.

A County Court-House, which also serves for a Market; a small commodious Church in a sightly
situation, two neat Chapels, one belonging to the Baptists, and the other to the Methodists;
a Catholic Chapel in progress; a Gaol, and a building occupied as a College till another one
on an enlarged scale can be erected; a Poor House in the vicinity of the town, on a liberal
scale; and a Meeting House belonging to a number of persons composed of congregationalists
and other seceders from the Kirk of Scotland.

Government House is situated a little above the upper part of the town on a convenient pleasant
site, but having been a long time without a settled family it was when Sir HOWARD DOUGLAS came
to the Province considerably out of order. It wants a wing to be added to make it uniform with
other improvements: for although when the house was built for Governor CARLETON it was on a
liberal scale, considering the state of the Province at that time, it has been suffered to
remain without enlargement, while the country has rapidly advanced.--It is, therefore, at present
neither sufficiently spacious or splendid for the Governor's residence.--The same observations
may apply to the Province Hall, which although always too low to make a good appearance or
allow a good Council Chamber, was a good building considering the state of the country and
want of revenue at the time it was erected; but is now too small and plain, considering the
great increase of the population and trade of the Province.

Public buildings speak much, though silently, for the public spirit, taste, and importance
of a country. They should, therefore, always be on such an enlightened scale as not to be a
prejudice to it. One general observation may be made on all the public edifices in Fredericton,
which is that being uniformly low they make a flat appearance, which is peculiarly striking
to a stranger coming from countries where buildings are more elevated.

Probably there are few finer situations for a town than the site on which Fredericton is built.
A beautiful river glides majestically in front of a spacious plain; bounded by hills of gentle
acclivity, possessing elegant sites for seats and buildings on commanding situations. On the
opposite side of the river the Nashwaack rolls its tribute to the Saint John and adds much
to the beauty of the situation. Abundance of excellent water is every where found with a soil
peculiarly well adapted for forming gardens, walks, &c. with a pure, healthy atmosphere. From
the hills which skirt the town the river can be seen to a great distance winding through the
country, till it is lost among the distant Islands.

Fredericton being at the head of the sloop navigation is the main depot for goods from the
seaboard. It is about eighty-five miles from the sea and surrounded by a large extent of country
which is fast settling. The river Saint John is about three quarters of a mile wide in front
of the town, and extends upwards of four hundred miles above it.--The surrounding country possesses
an excellent soil, and abounds in valuable timber, and as the whole of the trade to and from
the upper country must pass Fredericton, a great part of it must of course centre there, and
consequently, as the country becomes fully settled, Fredericton must improve and from its situation
remain the great central emporium of the Province.

Fredericton contains a Printing Office and a Public Library, with the following public Institutions.

1. A Branch of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.

2. The Bible Association of Fredericton and its vicinity.

3. A Branch of the Methodist Missionary Society.

4. The Fredericton Emigrant Society. This Society was formed at Fredericton in 1819, for the
relief of destitute strangers, being the first Institution of that kind formed in the Province.
It expended large sums in that and the following year, and besides relieving the temporary
necessities of great numbers of destitute Emigrants, enabled many of them to settle on new
land, who are now in comfortable independent circumstances. It is not at present in active
operation, but has funds to a considerable amount.

5. The New-Brunswick Agricultural and Emigrant Society. This is a Provincial Institution having
branches in the different Counties. The General Society being established at Fredericton.

6. A Branch of the Society for improving the breed of Horses and Cattle, and a Savings' Bank.

Fredericton was formed by Governor CARLETON in 1785, shortly after the division of the Province
from Nova-Scotia, and being considered the most eligible and central situation, was made the
permanent Seat of Government. The policy of this measure has been questioned by many who overlook
the general good of the country for partial advantages. Much jealousy has always existed among
the Citizens of St. John in particular, in regard to this selection. Prejudices in favor of
our own land, religion, institutions, &c. must always be expected, and to a certain degree
it would show a want of attachment not to feel their influence; but then it must be remembered
that when we allow our own interest to blind our reason, we are prone to view what concerns
us with a partial eye. It is so with a person who being settled at the seaboard goes but seldom
out of sight of the harbor, but from what is passing before his eyes, concludes his town is
the only place of consequence in the country; and as nature has made it the great mart for
the imports and exports of the interior, it must of course be likewise the only place fit for
the Seat of Government, and every thing else of consequence in the Province. But when a person
whose mind is above these mercenary considerations, and enlarged to see the general good of
the country, casts his eye on the map of the Province, he will find that if the situation was
as good a few miles farther up, it would still be more central. For Fredericton is only eighty-five
miles from the sea; at the lower extremity of the County of York, which extends upwards to
the Canada line about two hundred miles. The large County of Northumberland joins York on the
North and Northeastward, and comprises all the land from Westmorland, along the Gulf and river
of St. Lawrence, till it likewise joins Canada. These two Counties form more than two thirds
of the whole Province; and will no doubt each require to be divided into two or more Counties,
when they become more fully settled. Consequently the seat of Government is at present in the
most eligible place for the general convenience of the inhabitants of the Province at large,
than any other situation that possibly could be selected. Diverging as from a common centre,
the distance of the routes from Fredericton to the most important parts of the Province are
nearly equal, viz. to St. John is about eighty-five miles, passing four counties in the distance;
to St. Andrews, the frontier town, about ninety miles; to Northumberland about the same distance;
to Fort Cumberland in Westmorland, about one hundred and forty miles; and to Madawaska, the
upper settlement on the great road to Canada, about the same distance.

In time of war, its situation for a military depot is excellent, as from the direction of the
routes just mentioned, the different accessible parts of the Province could be easier succoured
from here than any other station. And if reinforcements should have to pass through the Province
to Canada during the winter season. Fredericton and the Great Falls would always, from their
situation, be the natural depots for troops, stores, &c. Neither if magazines were formed at
this place could there be more danger of their being surprised and taken, than at any of the
sea-ports; for it is nearly one hundred miles from an enemy's frontier, and there must be a
great want of vigilance if any body of men, sufficient to make an impression, should be allowed
to approach without opposing effectual resistance, or at the worst, taking such measures as
should disappoint them.

The importance of good accommodations for troops marching to Canada, at Fredericton, and the
upper parts of the river St. John, was well ascertained during the last war, and should not
soon be lost sight of.

In short, as nature has given St. John and the other sea-ports advantages that cannot be taken
from them, so Fredericton, from its central situation, possesses advantages peculiar to itself.
Instead, therefore, of indulging in such partial jealousies, every encouragement should be
given to such towns, as they contribute to the improvement of the interior of a country from
whence most of the resources that support the sea-ports are drawn.

Fredericton is slowly increasing in buildings and improvements. It has a considerable share
in the lumber trade, for which it is well situated. Ship-building has also lately been commenced,
and will probably be prosecuted to considerable extent as there are no want of good situations
for launching, and abundance of timber.

If the main streets in Fredericton had been laid out to follow the windings of the river they
would have formed an agreeable curve; the squares could then have been kept uniform in width,
and the main streets could have continued without a jog, the whole length of the town, which
would be a great improvement to the looks of the place.

SAINT ANDREWS.

The frontier town of New-Brunswick, lies nearly opposite Robinstown, in the State of Maine.
It is a small pleasant sea-port in the County of Charlotte: being situated near the river Saint
Croix, on a narrow strip of low land fronting the Bay of Passamaquoddy, with a range of hills
in the rear. It has two principal streets, running parallel with the water, which are intersected
by cross streets at right angles. The principal streets are well built up, and the town contains
2,268 inhabitants, according to the census taken in 1824.--It is conveniently situated for
the fishing trade, as the waters abound with cod, haddock, pollock, and numbers of other fish,
and there are numbers of small Islands nearly within view of the harbor, very suitable for
prosecuting the fishery to advantage. It carries on a considerable trade in exporting squared
and sawed lumber, and in ship-building--thirteen vessels were registered in the Port of Saint
Andrews in 1824, amounting to three thousand six hundred and thirty-three tons, all of which
had been built in the County, besides about five hundred and ninety tons, not included in the
above amount.--It contains a neat Church belonging to the establishment, and a commodious Kirk,
built at the sole expense of Mr. CHRISTOPHER SCOTT, and presented by him to the members of
the Kirk of Scotland. It has also a Grammar School, a Court-House and Gaol; a Printing Office,
with a number of fine private buildings.

Here is likewise a Chamber of Commerce, a Savings' Bank, a Bible Society, an Agricultural and
Emigrant Society for the County, with other public Institutions for promoting the temporal
and spiritual welfare of the inhabitants.

Saint Andrews being situated on the frontiers of the Province, within view of the American
territories, is a place of great importance in the event of a rupture with the United States.
Considerable works were erected here during the last war, which are now much gone to decay.
A few troops are, however, usually stationed here. At the Commencement of the last troubles
with America, an agreement was wisely entered into between the Magistrates of this place, and
the American authorities in its immediate vicinity, to abstain from mutual hostilities, which
was strictly observed during the war, to the mutual advantage of both parties; who were thereby
delivered from the horrors of a predatory, murderous warfare, equally distressing to both nations.

Saint Andrews being the shire town of the important County of Charlotte, is silently rising
into importance; and will no doubt from its many natural advantages, always maintain its rank
among the principal towns of this Province.

CHAPTER V.

Topographical Description of the several Counties in the Province of New-Brunswick. Their Boundaries
and Extent. Parishes. Rivers. Settlements, Produce, &c. Great Roads, &c.

Having, in the preceding pages, given a brief general description of New-Brunswick, I shall
now proceed to give a short sketch of each County, comprising a view of the face of the country,
principal streams, settlements, produce, &c. And as five of them lie along the river St. John,
I shall begin at the head of that river, and follow it to its exit into the Bay of Fundy. The
three remaining counties will be noticed afterwards. Following this method, (which by keeping
the counties and parishes distinct, will give the reader a clearer knowledge of the country
than a more elaborate account, where names and situations are mentioned without method, and
described promiscuously) I shall confine myself to brevity, at the same time endeavouring to
avoid obscurity; and have to lament that the want of correct information prevents me from making
this part of the work as complete as I could wish.

SECTION I.

YORK.

This County commences at the Canada line, which bounds it on the north-west. The County of
Northumberland bounds it on the north-east, on the south-east it adjoins Sunbury, and on the
south-west Charlotte, and contains 10,972 inhabitants.

Beginning at the northern and uppermost part of the county, and proceeding down the main river
St. John, the first settlement is Madawaska, situated between the Grand Falls and the Madawaska
river, which falls into the St. John at the upper part of the settlement. The inhabitants are
the descendants of the old Acadians, who were settled on different parts of the river St. John,
and who on the arrival of the English moved up to this place, where, being joined by others
from Canada, they formed this settlement distinct from the English, and have ever since been
quiet subjects, and well affected to the British Government. Madawaska is about midway between
Fredericton and Quebec, and is in a flourishing state. It has a Romish Chapel, where the rites
and ceremonies of that religion are duly performed by a Missionary from Canada, who likewise,
with the assistance of one or two leading persons regulates the internal police of the settlement
by settling disputes, keeping the peace, &c. and so successful have they been that although
there are neither lawyers or magistrates in the place, the Courts of Justice have had but little
trouble from that quarter. The land along the margin of the river is in general good, level,
and unbroken; but owing to its northern situation it is unfavourable to Indian corn; but wheat,
oats, grass, &c. flourish there in great perfection. The inhabitants are all farmers, and generally
raise more than they can consume, having a surplus of grain to sell to traders in the settlement
or to take to Fredericton. Their manners and habits being simple, they expend but little on
luxuries. Their women manufacture a coarse cloth and kerseys sufficient for their own consumption.
The men are about the middle size, generally spare built and active; the women, on the contrary,
are very stout and short. They are very lively and hospitable, but very slovenly in their houses
and cookery. In short, they appear a different race from the English. A stranger going above
the Falls, finds himself suddenly among a new race of people, different in their language,
religion, habitations, and manners.

Below this settlement the country is a wilderness for some distance, comprising the lands adjoining
and below the Grand Falls.

The isthmus formed by the bend of the river at the Grand Falls, was formerly cleared by the
troops stationed at that post. This spot was selected at the first settlement of the Province
for a military station. It served not only as a security for the settlers at that period, when
the country was a total wilderness and almost impassable, being without roads or habitations,
but also connected and secured the communication with Canada. Barracks, &c. were constructed
and troops stationed at this place for a number of years. The works are at present in ruins;
although it is no doubt one of the first interior positions in the Province. This place forms
one of the great features of New-Brunswick. Here the navigation of the great river St. John
is totally obstructed, and the upper part of the country disjoined from the seaboard. This
points out the great importance of its situation, as the great connecting point and centre
for the intercourse and trade of the upper country, whenever it becomes fully settled. Its
situation will no doubt soon attract a settlement, and in process of time a town will arise,
which will be the depot for goods from the seaboard, where they will be exchanged for the produce
of the upper part of the country. A canal or tunnel cut through the isthmus, will probably
follow. This would be of the utmost advantage to the Province, by connecting the navigation
and developing the resources of the upper country, which are said to be almost inexhaustible.
The distance to cut would be nearly one hundred rods. The isthmus being ninety rods across,
from bank to bank, the descent of the water would be nearly half an inch to a foot.

Descending the St. John seven miles below the falls, it receives the Salmon river, a considerable
stream from the east, and eleven miles farther the Restook falls into it from the westward.
This is a fine river, running in a very crooked direction through a fine country abounding
in excellent land and well stored with timber of the first quality. It makes to the southwest
and has been explored upwards of one hundred miles, where it continues of a good width. It
is supposed to be of great length and is claimed by the United States, although some of the
British settlers have lately commenced establishing themselves on the river and are making
very free with the pine. Three miles below the Restook, the Tobique, named for its red pines,
brings its tribute to the St. John. This is another considerable river, being upwards of two
hundred miles in length. Its banks to a good distance back have been covered with pines of
the finest growth, which have been mostly cut off. The soil in the pine districts is not favorable
for farming pursuits, but would require much labor to bring it to a state fit for cultivation.
There are, however, some good Islands in the course of the river, and strips of rich land intermixed
with the pine districts, and the lands adjoining the Tobique lying along the banks of the Saint
John are of the finest quality; and where cultivated produce the most abundant crops. A district
comprising ten miles extending along the river Saint John and embracing both sides of the Tobique
is reserved for the Indians. This tract is certainly not inferior to any land in the Province,
and it is a pity it should remain in its present unimproved state. The Indians have only a
small clearing at the mouth of the Tobique, where they have a hut which is reserved as a Chapel,
and where one or two Indians generally sit down as they term it, to watch a small crop, and
keep possession.

After the peace with America in 1814, a number of disbanded, men of the 8th, 98th, and 104th
regiments, and of the West-India Rangers and New-Brunswick Fencibles, were settled on this
part of the river Saint John, chiefly between the military post of Presqu-Isle and the Indian
reserve. Many of these settlers have made good improvements, and have already secured a comfortable
independency. The wilderness has been converted into cultivated fields, covered with habitations;
and the district formed into a Parish, and named after his Royal Highness the late Duke of
Kent.--It extends on both sides of the river from the Grand Falls to the Parish of Wakefield.
The land is of a superior quality, covered with a variety of timber of the tallest growth,
and unincumbered with much undergrowth; the trees standing in most places so far apart, that
a man on horse-back would be but seldom incommoded by them. This is of great advantage to the
settler, as it relieves him from the great labor of clearing away the under brush, which is
so troublesome in some parts of the country. Nor is this fine tract of land confined to the
margin of the river, but extends back, and is found in many places to improve as you advance
into the interior. The United States line approaches the river St. John within a few miles
along this Parish, and they have a township laid out, embracing Mars Hill before described.
It is to be regretted that many of the settlers in this Parish having formerly been accustomed
to the free use of spirituous liquors, find the temptation revived by the great introduction
of them by the lumber speculators, who in many instances are drawing the settlers from their
domestic habits, to which they began to be accustomed, to a dissipated mode of living, to the
loss of their morals and property.

Descending the Saint John, which every few miles receives the tribute of some considerable
creek or river, we arrive at the Presqu-Isle. This was formerly a military post; Barracks,
&c. having been erected at this place shortly after the American revolution sufficient to accommodate
three companies of foot, which are now in ruins. A few soldiers were stationed here till 1822,
since which period the place has been totally abandoned as a military station. The bank at
this place is high and the spot where the Barracks stood very pleasant, commanding a fine view
of the adjacent country, having a beautiful Island directly in front. To a contemplative mind
this spot must be interesting when he reflects that the soldiers who forced their way from
Fredericton through the wilderness to construct these works, have fallen by the sword and disease;
that the men who projected them, as well as those who superintended their construction, are
mouldering in their graves--that the conductors of the boats which transported the supplies
are now no more--and that the boats are now in view from the site of the Barracks lying in
the bushes and falling gradually to pieces.--If he is an old settler, this must have past within
his memory, and may teach him the instability of all human affairs. Eight miles below the Presqu-Isle
a stream called the Pekagomique falls into the Saint John on the eastern side. The land on
this stream is very good, and a settlement is begun a few miles from its mouth, it has good
mills and is well stored with timber. There are several other streams in the Parish of Wakefield,
which extends on both sides of the river, till it joins Woodstock on the western and Northampton
on the eastern side about sixty-three miles above Fredericton. It is a flourishing Parish,
the land being of a good quality, the farms along the river are improving, and back settlements
forming.

Woodstock is generally well settled. The houses are neat, and make a fine appearance as the
traveller passes along the river. There are some fine islands in this part of the river, which
enrich the settlers by their produce.--There is an Episcopal Church in this Parish, which has
been filled ever since its erection by the Rev. Mr. DIBBLEE, who likewise officiates occasionally
in the adjoining Parishes. The river Madaxnikik passes through this Parish to its exit into
the Saint John, and adds to its importance, as several settlements are making along its banks.
This stream has a series of cataracts, and passes by the American settlement of Houlton which
lies directly in the rear of Woodstock, and commences about fifteen miles from the Saint John.
From this settlement there is a road to the Penobscot river. Eel river falls into the Saint
John near the lower part of Woodstock. This river heads near the sources of the Saint Croix;
a short portage leads from the waters of one river to the other. Opposite Woodstock on the
eastern side of the river lies the Parish of Northampton, which extends down to Queensbury.
This Parish is well settled, as is the adjoining Parish of Queensbury. Several streams intersect
these Parishes, the most considerable of which are the Nachiwikik and Mactuqaack.

The farms along this part of the country, are in many places well improved: but the soil is
not equal to the upper part of the river. There are, however, a succession of fine Islands,
which compensate for the inferiority of the upland.

There is an Episcopal Church at the lower part of Queensbury, which is filled occasionally
by the Rev. Mr. SOMERVILLE, President of the College of New-Brunswick, and itinerant Missionary
for this part of the country.

Prince William adjoins Woodstock on the Western side of the river. The upper part of this Parish
is but little improved, a large district belonging to the Chief Justice being mostly a wilderness.
The soil, likewise, is inferior to the land above. The lower part of the Parish is, however
highly improved, some parts being interval land of the first quality. There are several fine
lakes back of this parish, one of which named Lake George, has a fine settlement on its banks.
This lake discharges its waters into the St. John, by a stream called the Poquihouk, which
is an Indian name, signifying a dreadful place, and a dreadful place it certainly is. The water
just before its exit into the St. John, appears to have been originally pent up by the high
bank along the river. Through this it has forced a passage, and tumbles down the rocks and
precipices with dreadful impetuosity. The passage through which it passes is very narrow and
nearly seventy feet perpendicular, composed of large stones, which appear as if they had been
laid by Masons; the whole forming a sublime and terrific appearance. There is a Chapel belonging
to the Baptists in this Parish.

Several of the officers and men of the King's American Dragoons were formerly settled here,
very few of whom are at present alive. Some of their descendants are occupying their lands
and doing well.

The Parish of Kingsclear, which adjoins Prince William, has nothing peculiar, the soil being
much the same as the latter. The face of the country is hilly, interspersed with several streams
well adapted for mill seats. Many individuals of the reduced Battalion of the New Jersey Volunteers
settled in this Parish, some of whom are still living and doing well. A Baptist Chapel has
lately been erected here, in which worship is occasionally performed. Opposite this Parish
on the eastern side of the river is the Parish of Douglas, so called in honor of the present
Lieutenant-Governor of the Province. It adjoins Queensbury, and extends down nearly to the
Nashwaack. The Madam Keswick, a considerable stream, intersects this Parish. This is an extensive
settlement, and was formed by the York Volunteers and some of the Royal Guides and Pioneers.
The settlements on the Keswick Ridge and Mactuquask lie between this stream and the main river,
and are in a flourishing state. It has a back settlement on the Nashwacksis and another one
still farther in the wilderness, called Cardigan, formed by a number of Welsh families from
Cardigan in Wales, who came to this Province in 1819, and were located here by Government.
Being very destitute, they were enabled to commence settling by a subscription of the inhabitants
of Fredericton, aided by the Emigrant Society. This Parish has a Church near the mouth of the
Madam Keswick, and two Chapels belonging to the Methodists and Baptists.

The Parish of St. Mary's, which formerly included the Parish just mentioned, extends to the
County line, and joins Maugerville on the eastern side of the river. The river Nashwaack runs
through this Parish, and falls into the St. John opposite Fredericton. This stream was settled
by part of the 42d Regiment and some of the disbanded corps that had been raised in America
during the war. It is settled for more than thirty miles along its banks, having a mixture
of good intervale and high land along its course. About five miles from its confluence with
the St. John, it receives the waters of the Peniack, a considerable stream with a settlement
along its banks, and about twelve miles further up, the river Tay falls into it. There are
two Chapels in this settlement, one belonging to the Methodists and the other to the Baptists.
They have no stated Ministers, but are visited occasionally. The road from Fredericton to Miramichi
in the County of Northumberland leads through this settlement.

The Parish of Fredericton adjoins Kingsclear, and extends to the Parish of Lincoln in the County
of Sunbury. It includes the town of Fredericton, before described, with a back settlement called
New Maryland, and another on the Rushagoannes. The road from Fredericton to St. Andrews passes
through these settlements, and is fast improving.

The lands in the immediate vicinity of the town are not much improved. Having been reserved
for the College, they remain without tenants; the settlers in this country not liking to lease
farms, which are hard to clear up, when they can obtain lots for themselves by paying the grant
fees. A great part of the land in the site of the town, likewise belongs to the College or
Church, or is reserved for Government uses, which has been and still remains a great check
to the growth and improvement of the Town.

The County of York is upwards of two hundred miles in length. A great portion of the lands
in this county are well adapted to grain, particularly wheat. It is well stored with excellent
timber and abounds with navigable rivers and streams. It is settling and improving very fast,
and furnishes the major part of the lumber shipped at the port of St. John. Fredericton is
the principal Town, and situated within four miles of the lower extremity of the County.--The
inconvenience of the Courts, &c. being established at the extremity of such extensive Counties
are many, and amount almost to a denial of justice to the distant settlers, who have to travel
from one to two hundred miles to the County Courts. The consequence is that wrongs are frequently
unredressed, and crimes, if not of a capital nature, are often unnoticed; which if not remedied
will in time have a pernicious effect on the moral character of the inhabitants.

SECTION II.

SUNBURY.

Joins York on the North West, Northumberland on the North East, Queen's on the South East,
and Charlotte on the South West. It stretches along both sides of the river Saint John, and
contains four Parishes, with a population of three thousand two hundred and twenty-seven inhabitants.
This is the smallest County in the Province, not being over twenty miles in length. It is,
however, the oldest settled part of the river St. John. The first establishment of any consequence
on the river was made at this place in 1761, by a number of families from Massachusetts, who
having obtained a grant of a Township on the river St. John from the British Government, after
exploring different parts of the country, settled at Maugerville. Here they were joined at
different periods during the troubles in America, by several more families from New-England.
These settlers made improvements on both sides of the river, and called the whole district
Sunbury. The first commission of the peace for this place was dated 11th August, 1766, and
for holding Courts of Common Pleas 1770.

The Courts of Justice mere held here till 1783, when the American war being ended and the Loyalists
having settled in different parts of the country, the Supreme Court was removed to Saint John,
and afterwards established at Fredericton, which was made the permanent seat of Government,
and has remained so ever since.

The Parishes of Maugerville and Sheffield, on the eastern side of the river, are situated on
a strip of rich intervale, which being annually overflowed, yield abundant crops and are rich
in pastures.

The farms are well improved and stocked with abundance of cattle. The houses are in many parts
neat and improving in appearance, and the settlers in general substantial landholders and good
husbandman.

This is a delightful part of the Country for wheel carriages, the road being a continued level
along the margin of the river, which is occasionally hid from the view of the traveller, by
lofty trees and shrubs along the banks, which break off the piercing winds in winter and afford
a pleasant shade in summer. The road, is however, unsafe in many places where the freshets
have scooped away the banks and indented the road with small gullies, which being neglected
by the inhabitants, endanger the overturning of carriages. In the rear of these Parishes are
a chain of lakes which communicate with each other and discharge their waters into the Grand
Lake, and from thence by the Jemseg into the Saint John.--Most of these lakes are environed
with excellent land, and have settlements along their banks.

There is a Church belonging to the Establishment in Maugerville with a resident Pastor.--There
are two Meeting-Houses in Sheffield, one belonging to the seceders, and the other to the Methodists.
They have both settled Ministers and good congregations.

The Parishes of Lincoln and Burton are opposite the Parishes just described, on the western
side of the river--they are situated on high land interspersed with intervale. They are well
settled and the farms generally well cultivated. The river Oromocto intersects these parishes.
This is an extensive stream well settled in many places, having several branches which wind
through the country to a great distance. Some of these streams are settled, and mills are built
at different places.--The main road from Fredericton to Saint Andrews crosses this river a
little above the falls, where a blockhouse was constructed during the war for military purposes.
There is an extensive tract of wild meadow along the course of this river, which yields a great
quantity of coarse grass, and affords an extensive range for cattle, after the water has drained
off in the summer. The land on the Oromocto and its tributary streams is generally of a good
quality, but in common with most all the streams in this Province very subject to frost. The
mouth of the Oromocto being very deep, is a very eligible place for ship-building, which is
prosecuted here to considerable extent, timber, &c. being floated down the river in great abundance.
There was formerly a good herring fishery at the falls in this river, but a mill having been
built near that place it has dwindled to nothing.--There is a Church at the mouth of the Oromocto
on the Burton side, in which divine service is occasionally performed by the Rector of Maugerville.--There
is likewise a Court-house in Burton nearly in ruins where the County Courts are held. A stream
called Swan Creek runs through Burton, but has nothing peculiar to merit a particular description.--Three
valuable Islands lie in this part of the river Saint John called the Oromocto, Middle, and
Major's Island. Ox-Island runs parallel with Major's Island. It is small and forms shoals near
it which impede the navigation. There are also shoals at the Oromocto, which are nearly impassable
for large vessels in the dry part of the season.

SECTION III.

QUEEN'S.

This County joins Sunbury on the N.W. Charlotte on the S.W. Northumberland on the N.E. and
King's on the S.E. It lies on both sides of the river Saint John, and contains four Parishes,
with a population of 4,741 inhabitants.

This is a good county for stock, having a number of fine Islands within its limits. The inhabitants
are principally agriculturalists who have well improved farms and good stocks of cattle. The
land is of an excellent quality and in general well cultivated. The soil along the bank of
the river in the Parish of Waterborough is equalled by none in the Province for fertility.
As the country descends to the Jemseg, the rich sediment deposited by the annual overflowing
of the river, produces the most luxuriant vegetation, and although the farmer can seldom commence
his labours till June, yet so productive is the soil, that in a few weeks the county exhibits
the most exuberant vegetation. Indian corn flourishes in this Parish in the highest perfection:
the soil being a light rich loam and the country level so as to receive the full effect of
the sun. Small grain, grass, and roots are also produced here in the greatest abundance. Indeed
a more fertile district can scarcely be conceived than the land from Maugerville to the Jemseg.
The observations that were made about the road through Maugerville and Sheffield mill likewise
apply here, very little attention having of late been paid to them, and it is probable that
the statute labor is but seldom fully performed in any of those Parishes. There is a convenient
Chapel belonging to the Baptists in Waterborough, which has a stated minister and numerous
congregation.--After crossing the Jemseg, the country rises, and the Parish of Wickham exhibits
some well improved farms in pleasant and sightly situations. The Grand Lake, the largest body
of inland water in the Province, lies back of Waterborough. It is nearly thirty miles long,
and from three to nine wide. A large stream called Salmon River, falls into it near the head.
This stream is well timbered with pine. A short portage leads from this stream to the waters
communicating with the river Miramichi. This lake discharges its waters into the Saint John,
by a narrow gut called Jemseg, which is about thirty rods wide and very deep. The country on
the Western side of this lake is in many places low and marshy, having the French and Maquapit
lakes in its neighborhood which are settled in places. The country in the vicinity of the Grand
Lake abounds with coal, which is found of a good quality, particularly at a creek called New-Castle,
where large quantities have been dug. A stratum is generally found near the surface of the
earth: the first layer of coal being about eighteen inches in depth, and they are found to
improve in quality in proportion to the depth of the veins. The layers are nearly horizontal,
and are probably a continuation of the strata found at Cape Breton, which has been ascertained
to proceed in a Southwestern direction from that island, to Nova-Scotia and New-Brunswick.
The Grand Lake is well settled, and has a resident Minister belonging to the Established Church.
It has likewise a Methodist Chapel; but no stated minister of that denomination.

Another large lake called Washademoak, lies a little below the Jemseg, and is separated from
the Grand Lake by a range of highland. This lake is from twenty-four to thirty miles long,
and from two to three miles wide. A stream falls into this lake, called the Washademoak river,
which rises near the bend of the Peticodiac. It has a settlement along its banks, called New-Canaan.
There is a mixture of intervals and upland along this settlement, well covered with timber
of various kinds. The Washademoak lake is well settled, and empties into the St. John, opposite
Long Island.

The Parishes on the western side of the river are Gagetown and Hampstead. Gagetown is regularly
laid out, and is the county town. It has a handsome Church, with a settled Pastor; a Court-House
and Gaol, with several fine private buildings. As was observed before, several fine Islands
lie in this county, one of them, named Long Island, is six miles in length and well improved.
It has a neat Church, in which divine service is occasionally performed. It has likewise a
tavern, with as good accommodations and as well kept as any in the country. The streams in
this county on the western side of the river, have nothing peculiar to merit a particular description.
Gagetown Creek runs past the Township of that name, and facilitates the navigation of that
part of the country, and the Ocnabog is the tunnel through which the waters of a small lake
of that name are discharged into the Saint John. I must not forget to notice that in front
of Gagetown there is a bend in the river, which some ill natured person has saddled with the
forbidding name of "No Man's Friend" although there is nothing unfriendly about the place,
and it should rather be called "Pleasant Reach" as the adjoining country is very pleasant.

A new Parish has lately been erected in this County, called Brunswick, which lies back of Waterborough
and Wickham, and comprehends the settlement of New-Canaan and the district adjoining.

SECTION IV.

KING'S COUNTY.

Lies likewise on both sides of the river Saint John, and is bounded on the North by a line
running South West and North East, from the South point of Spoon Island in the river Saint
John. On the East by Northumberland and Westmorland. On the West by Charlotte, and on the South
by the County of Saint John. It contains seven thousand nine hundred and thirty inhabitants.

It comprehends the Long Reach, the Kennebeckasis and Belisle, and is divided into the following
Parishes--Westfield, Greenwich, Kingston, Springfield, Norton, Sussex, and Hampton. Kingston
has a Township regularly laid out, which bears the name of the Parish. It has a neat Church,
with a resident Minister, and a number of neat buildings, which make a fine appearance. The
Court-House, however, is a considerable distance from the Town. The settlers in most parts
of this Parish have the appearance of comfort and affluence, although the land is inferior
in fertility to most of the other Parishes. The Parish of Sussex has a Church with a resident
Minister, and an Academy for the instruction of the Indians, but little good has accrued to
these wanderers from that Institution. A beautiful strip of land lies in this Parish called
the Vale of Sussex, which is highly cultivated and covered with excellent houses and barns.--Agriculture
is in general well attended to, and its effects are evident in independent farmers, good stocks
of cattle and an air of comfort and cheerfulness, the sure returns of industry and husbandry.
The roads and bridges are in good order and well attended to. The great road of communication
passes through this Vale to Westmorland.

The river Kennebeckasis intersects this county, and falls into the Saint John, near the Boar's
Head. This is a considerable stream, and has several Islands scattered through its course.
It is navigable upwards of twenty miles for vessels of any burthen, and sixty miles farther
for small vessels and boats. It is well adapted for Ship-building, having abundance of excellent
timber in its neighborhood, and several vessels are annually built here for the merchants of
Saint John.

The Nerepis another considerable stream, falls into the Saint John at the foot of the Long
Reach. This river runs a considerable distance into the country and has a settlement along
its banks.

There are two quarries of excellent Plaster of Paris on the river Kennebeckasis. There is likewise
a salt spring in this part of the country, from which small quantities of salt have been made
by the Indians and Inhabitants settled near the place, which has proved of an excellent quality
for the table, and there can be no doubt of its possessing valuable medicinal qualities; but
no attention has yet been paid to analyse it. Great quantities of sugar are extracted from
the sugar maple in this county, upwards of ten thousand pounds have been made in a year, of
that valuable article in one Parish.

Several of the Parishes in this county have Churches, some of which have stated Pastors, and
others are supplied occasionally.

SECTION V.

SAINT JOHN. Westwardly by a North line from Point Lepreau. Eastwardly by Hopewell Township,
and on the Southward by the Bay of Fundy. It has four Parishes. The City of Saint John, Portland,
Lancaster, and Saint Martins. It contains a population of twelve thousand nine hundred and
seven inhabitants. This county has several fine harbors; the principal of which is the harbor
of Saint John, at the mouth of the Saint John river and which was noticed in the description
of the city. This harbor has a valuable fishery for Salmon, Herring, and Shad. Formerly from
two to three thousand barrels of Shad, twenty thousand barrels of herrings, and a vast quantity
of Salmon were taken here annually; but the fishery has fallen off very much of late years.
A Cod fishery might also be prosecuted to advantage not far from Partridge Island, but this
is totally neglected. The other harbors are Quaco, Musquash, and Dippoo harbor, down the Bay,
which have nothing particular. They have water sufficient for vessels of four hundred tons burthen.

The lands, in the county and along the sea-board are not so good for farming as those in the
interior. They are generally very rocky and uneven. In many places they are mere barrens being
covered with a stunted growth of shrubs. There are however good spots intermixed, and many
places that formerly appeared doomed to sterility have been brought under a good state of cultivation.
Great improvements have lately been made in farming in this county. Many new settlements have
been formed and are rapidly improving. Several merchants and persons of property in the city
of Saint John have lately improved farms in its vicinity; particularly on the Marsh and at
Loch Lomond. It will certainly be a great advantage to the Province, if men who possess capital,
employ a part of it in improving the country. By this means many poor districts of sterile
land may be reclaimed, and improved by the wealth of the city; to the great advantage of individuals,
and benefit of the settlement where such improvements are made: as the citizen will lay out
from year to year, no more than he can spare from his other pursuits, and this when the land
is once brought to a good state of cultivation will richly repay him: while the indigent settler
will have labour brought home to his own door to enable him to subsist while he improves a
small spot for himself, which without such a resource he could not attempt.

A great strip of Marsh lies contiguous to the city, some of which is dyked and yields excellent
grass. The whole district is rapidly improving to the great advantage of the city. Several
wealthy citizens have lately made great improvements here, and some fine seats are nearly completed.

The Parish of Portland contains old Fort Howe. This Fort is situated on a rugged hill at the
mouth of the river Saint John, and completely commands the harbour. Portland is well built
up, but the road near the Fort is very narrow, and in a wretched state, considering that it
is the only thoroughfare from the city, to the Indian House, so called; which is situated in
front of the bay, just above the falls, and where vessels and boats come too, going and coming
to wait for the tide, and where passengers from all parts of the river land, and frequently
walk over the tongue of land to Saint John, which is a little more than a mile. Passengers
likewise going up the river in the Steam-Boat or Sloops, usually ride or walk from Saint John
to the Indian House, and baggage and goods of all descriptions, are transported above the falls
by this route, which keeps the road continually thronged, and points out the necessity of having
a good and safe communication in such a public place. There is no public place of worship in
Portland of any denomination: the inhabitants resort to the different places of worship in
the city.

The settlements of Quaco, Manawagonish, Musquash, &c. are in a flourishing state. Considerable
progress has been made in Agriculture, and there is reason to believe the country round the
Bay shore is rich in minerals. Manganese has been found at Quaco, and the adjoining district,
which has been sent to the United States, and is said to be of a good quality.

SECTION VI.

Having in the preceding sections briefly described the five Counties lying along the river
St. John; I shall now proceed with the three remaining, commencing with

CHARLOTTE.

This County is bounded by the Bay of Fundy on the south, by the St. Croix river, and the Bay
of Passamaquoddy on the west and south west, on the east by a north line from Point Lepreau,
and on the north by a west line commencing in the said north line thirty-three miles from Point
Lepreau, and contains nine thousand two hundred and sixty-seven inhabitants.

It is divided from the United States by the river St. Croix, commonly called the Schoodick,
which is the line in this quarter that divides the territories of His Britannic Majesty from
the District (State) of Maine. It comprehends several large Islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy,
and is divided into the following Parishes:--St. Andrews, St. Stephens, St. Davids, St. Patricks,
St. Georges, Pennfield, Campobello, West Isles, and Grand Manan.

The Parish of St. Andrews, besides the town of that name already described, possesses many
advantages for trade, being situated very conveniently for navigation. It has several Saw-Mills,
and a great quantity of boards, planks, &c. are shipped from that port.

St. Stephens likewise furnishes vast quantities of sawed lumber. The mills in this parish on
the river Schoodick are very numerous. More than four million feet of boards and planks are
cut in this Parish annually. Ship-building is likewise carried on to considerable extent. Large
quantities of shingles and small lumber of different descriptions are also furnished here for
exportation. There is a Methodist Chapel with a stated Minister in this parish. The country
is considerably improved, having several good farms. It has likewise a good herring fishery
at the falls of the Schoodick.

St. Davids has likewise some good saw-mills. It also furnishes masts, and squared timber for
shipping. The land in this Parish is of an excellent quality, and produces wheat, oats, Indian
corn, potatoes, &c. in great abundance.

The Parishes of St. Patricks, St. George, and Pennfield, have each a number of saw-mills, and
furnish large quantities of sawed lumber of the best quality--the country being well stocked
with excellent pine. Considerable quantities of scale fish are also caught and cured here.
Great improvements are likewise making in Agriculture in these Parishes, particularly in Pennfield,
which produces wheat in great perfection. The settlers in this Parish are good farmers, and
are making great improvements.

The Parishes of Campobello and Deer Island comprehend the Islands so called. Campobello includes
the Islands on the south east side of Passamaquoddy river. It contains several thousand acres
of land fit for cultivation. Many of the inhabitants are employed in the fishery along the
shores. Great quantities of cod and other fish are taken about the Island, and sold uncured
to the Americans. Formerly most of the gypsum exported from this Province was landed on this
Island where it was shipped on board American vessels for Philadelphia and New-York.

Grand-Manan is likewise a considerable place for fishing, Ship-building, &c. and is of considerable
importance in a nautical point of view, as it lies near the entrance of the Bay of Fundy. It
is fourteen miles long and seven miles broad. The Northernmost point is in latitude 44° 54'
longitude 66° 45' west.

The rivers Maggagaudavick and Digdaguash, lie in this county, and are of the utmost advantage
in transporting the lumber from the interior. On each of these streams mills are erected. The
Maggagaudavick runs a great distance into the country, and communicates with a chain of lakes,
down which lumber is floated from a great distance. There are several falls in the Maggagaudavick--those
near the mouth are nearly forty feet.

Several Islands lying in Passamaquoddy Bay are within the limits of this county. Some of them
are of considerable importance, on account of the fishery, and as affording harbors for shipping.

SECTION VII.

WESTMORLAND.

Is bounded eastwardly by the line of Nova-Scotia, and the Gulph of St. Lawrence; northerly,
by a west line running into the country from the northernmost point of Shediac Island; westwardly,
by a line beginning at a point in the north boundary of St. John County; north, from Quaco
head, and running north till it meets said west line; southerly, by St. John County and Chignecto.
It contains nine thousand three hundred and three inhabitants.

This County is situated at the head of the Bay of Fundy, and joins Nova-Scotia. The line between
the Provinces is the narrowest part of the isthmus between the Bay of Fundy and Bay Verte.
A small stream over which there is a bridge--forming the separating line. It contains the following
Parishes:--Westmorland, Sackville, Hillsborough, Hopewell, Moncton, Dorchester, Salisbury,
and Botsford.

A considerable part of this county was formerly settled by the Acadians or French neutrals,
whose descendants are still numerous in this and the adjoining County of Northumberland, being
spread along the seaboard, to the Bay of Chaleur. They have settlements at Memramcook, Peticodiac,
Bay Verte, Cocagne, Bucktouche, Richibucto, &c.--where there are several large Chapels, which
are usually supplied with Romish Missionaries, who are supported by tythes from the French
Catholics. But the most thriving class of settlers are the English, chiefly from Yorkshire,
or their descendants. They are in general good farmers and attend chiefly to husbandry. Indian
corn is but little cultivated in this county, the climate being too cool and temperate for
that plant to thrive well; but wheat, oats, potatoes, &c. flourish here in great perfection.
This is the finest part of the Province for stock; from the extensive tracts of salt marsh
which lie in this county, many thousand acres of which are dyked and produce abundant crops.
Butter and cheese are made and exported from this county in large quantities. The cattle are
superior to any in the country from the great attention that has been paid by the inhabitants
to crossing and improving the breed. During the American war nine hundred head of cattle, and
eight hundred firkins of butter, were sent from this county to Halifax, and other places in
one year, and although the demand has fallen off since the peace, there are still large droves
taken from Cumberland to Halifax, and St. John--and likewise large quantities of butter and cheese.

The tides at the head of the Bay rise to a great height. They come in with successive swells
of the water called the Boar, which at spring tides roll in with amazing velocity in waves
about three feet perpendicular. The noise of the Boar is heard a great distance, and animals
immediately take to the highland, and manifest visible signs of terror if near it. The spring
tides at Cape Chignecto, Cape Enrage, and Cumberland bason, are from forty-five to fifty-five
feet. Common tides at Cape Chignecto, thirty-six feet; at Cape Enrage, forty feet; at Fort
Cumberland, forty-five; and at Bay Verte, from eight to ten feet perpendicular.

The shores from Cape Chignecto and Martin's Head to the Joggins, or land of Grindstones, are
high, bold and rocky. On other parts of the coast they are not so elevated, but abound in most
places with valuable stones of different kinds, fit for building and other purposes. Great
quantities of Grindstones are made in this county, and furnish a valuable article for exportation.
Nearly twenty thousand were formerly exported from this place annually, to the United States,
and other places, but this branch of trade has fallen off considerably of late years.

Fort Cumberland formerly called Beausejour, is situated on the Missaguash river in this county.
It was the first post fortified by the French in this Province, and was for a long while a
great annoyance to the English settlers, till it was taken by Colonel MONCKTON, in 1755, who
placed a British Garrison in it. The works are at present much decayed, a few soldiers are
however still stationed in it.

The several parishes in this county are in a flourishing state. Some of them have neat places
of worship with stated Ministers, and others are visited occasionally. Westmorland in general,
is well settled, with a substantial yeomanry, and although it does not make such a figure in
a bustling trade as some of the other counties, it is silently enriching itself with the slow
but sure returns of Agriculture, and fast rising into importance.

The rivers in this county are the Peticodiac, Memramcook, and Missaguash with several other
streams which run a considerable distance into the country. Some of them are well settled along
their banks. The main road from Saint John to Cumberland follows the Peticodiac nearly throughout
its whole course.

There are no sea-ports in this county of consequence. Dorchester has but little trade, and
Chediac, is near the lines in Northumberland, although the river runs into this county and
facilitates the export of its produce.

SECTION VIII.

NORTHUMBERLAND.

Joins Westmorland on the southward, and is bounded eastwardly by the Gulph of Saint Lawrence,
and Bay of Chaleur. On the northwestward by the Bay of Chaleur to the river Ristigouche, and
westwardly by a continuation of the western boundary line of Westmorland. The population of
this county amounts to fifteen thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine.

This extensive county lies along the Gulph of Saint Lawrence having a great extent of sea-coast.
It includes several large bays and rivers, and comprises more than one third of the Province.
It contains the following Parishes:--Newcastle, Chatham, Ludlow, Northesk, Alnwick, Carleton,
Beresford, Glenelg, Saumarez, Wellington, and Nelson. It is a great lumbering county, and furnishes
more squared timber annually than the whole Province besides: The pine is of the best quality,
and found in immense quantities along the numerous streams and rivers with which this part
of the country abounds. The lumber shipped from this county generally commands a better price
in the British market than from any other part of the Province. The principal port for shipping
is Miramichi, which is crowded with vessels during the summer and autumn. The river has two
main branches called the northwest and southwest. Vessels load in different parts of the river,
and rafts are brought to the shipping with the greatest ease. Shipping go up the river as far
as Fraser's Island for cargoes and farther on the northwest, where there are several trading
establishments. Newcastle is a considerable place for loading, and although it may be considered
the county town, has nothing particular. About two miles below this place there is a trading
establishment belonging to Mr. ABRAHAMS, and two miles farther down is the establishment of
RANKIN, & CO. Indeed wherever there is a convenient cove, vessels lay and load. Chatham four
miles below Newcastle on the opposite side of the river, is also a considerable shipping place.
It has a Church with several fine stores and buildings. There are but few places along the
entrance of this river but what are convenient for shipping. Upwards of three hundred sail
load annually at Miramichi. The timber is paid for part in specie, and part in British and
West-India goods and provisions.

A stranger would naturally suppose, that such a trade must produce great riches to the country;
and that great and rapid improvements would be made. That large towns would be built--that
the fair produce of such a trade would be seen in commodious and elegant houses, extensive
stores and mercantile conveniences, in public buildings for ornament and utility, good roads
and improved seats in the vicinity of the sea-ports, with Churches, Kirks, Chapels, &c.: All
these with many other expectations would be but a matter of course. But here he would not only
be disappointed, but astonished at the rugged and uncouth appearance of most part of this extensive
county. There is not even a place that can claim the name of a town. The wealth that has come
into it, has passed as through a thoroughfare to the United States, to pay for labour or cattle.
The persons principally engaged in shipping the timber have been strangers who have taken no
interest in the welfare of the country; but have merely occupied a spot to make what they could
in the shortest possible time. Some of these have done well, and others have had to quit the
trade: but whether they won or lost the capital of the country has been wasted, and no improvement
of any consequence made to compensate for it, or to secure a source of trade to the inhabitants,
when the lumber shall fail. Instead of seeing towns built, farms improved, and the country
cleared and stocked with the reasonable returns of so great a trade; the forests are stripped
and nothing left in prospect, but the gloomy apprehension when the timber is gone, of sinking
into insignificance and poverty. Formerly the woods swarmed with American adventurers who cut
as they pleased. These men seeing the advantages that were given them, and wishing to make
the most of their time, cut few but prime trees, and manufactured only the best part of what
they felled, leaving the tops to rot; by this mode more than a third of the timber was lost.
This with their practice of leaving what was not of the best quality after the trees were felled,
has destroyed hundreds of thousands of tons of good timber: And when this was stopped by permitting
none but British subjects and freeholders to obtain licenses, the business was not much mended
as any person wishing to enter into the trade could, by purchasing a small sterile spot for
a small trifle (provided he was a British subject) get in the way of monopolizing the woods.
These are some of the causes that have and still do operate against the prosperity of the country.
Men who take no interest in the welfare of the province, continue to sap and prey on its resources.

The other sea-ports in this county are Saint Peters, Richibucto, and Ristigouche, at which
places there is a considerable trade carried on in squared timber, &c. but they have nothing
of consequence to merit a particular description. Besides the Miramichi already described,
this county is watered by several considerable rivers, the principal of which is the Ristigouche,
which falls into the Bay of Chaleur, and communicates by a short portage with Grand River which
falls into the Saint John fifteen miles above the great falls. The smaller rivers are numerous,
some of them have settlements along their banks and others are but little known. The inhabitants
are a mixture of Europeans and Americans. A number of the descendants of the French neutrals
are settled in this county, particularly on the river Cocagne where there are several villages
with Catholic Chapels; they are also settled at Buctouche, Richibucto and along the sea-board
as far as the Bay of Chaleur. They are generally agriculturalists and quiet orderly settlers.

Having thus gone briefly through the different counties, I shall conclude this chapter with
a statement of the distances of the principal points on the Great Road of communication from
St. John to Quebec:

From St. John to Fredericton,               92 miles on the western
From Fredericton to the Presque-Isle,       84   side of the river.
From Presque-Isle to Grand Falls,           52
Thence to the Madawaska Falls,              45
To the river Des Caps near Kamouraska,      84
Thence to Quebec,                          107
                                           ---
                                           464

making in the whole a distance of four hundred and sixty-four miles from the sea-board to Quebec,
according to the present routes; nearly two thirds of which is along the great river St. John.

The great road of communication between this Province and Canada, has been much neglected,
particularly about the Grand Falls where the road has been but lately cut and is but little
improved, although this has been the route for the couriers upwards of forty years; but as
the attention of Government is now turned to that object it is probable there will soon be
an alteration for the better.

In opening new roads there is not sufficient pains taken to explore the best ground in commencing.
Frequently after the roads are considerably improved, and much money expended, better routes
are discovered and most parts of the old road are abandoned. To remedy this where the road
runs along the course of a river it would be advisible to explore the country some distance
back, for as the banks of the rivers are in many places very high the streams that run into
them indent the country and form hollows and hills near their exit that are nearly impassable;
when by going a little back the land falls and their banks have a gradual slope over which
a good road may be made with ease. This although not a general rule, will hold good in most
parts of the country.

CHAPTER VI.

State of Learning. Trade. Revenue. Remarks on the Lumber Business. Population. Militia.

The state of learning in this Province is very flourishing at present compared to what it was
a few years ago. When the country was first settled the opportunities of obtaining a liberal
education were small and confined to a few. From this cause many persons who occasionally fill
important stations in the several counties, are found very deficient in learning, but this
from the many provisions lately made will cease in a few years, and men will always be found
to fill all public offices, with learning sufficient to enable them to discharge their several
duties with credit to themselves and advantage to the public.

Besides the College of New-Brunswick incorporated by charter, there are Grammar Schools established
in several counties which are liberally supported. By the bounty of the Legislature, twenty
pounds per annum is allowed to be drawn out of the Province Treasury for every Parish where
a School-House is provided, and the sum of thirty pounds raised by the inhabitants, to enable
them to employ good and sufficient teachers, and this bounty extends to three schools in each
Parish. By this liberal public provision schooling is brought to the doors of most of the inhabitants,
who will exert themselves to partake of the public benefit.

The College of New-Brunswick is established at Fredericton and endowed with a block of land
containing nearly six thousand acres adjoining the town plot.

The Governor and Trustees of this College having surrendered their charter to the King, and
petitioned to have the Establishment put on a more enlarged footing; their petition was graciously
received and a new charter granted, bearing date the eighteenth of November, one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-three. A grant of a sum of money was at the same time made to the College
out of the royal revenues in this Province, to enable the Corporation to erect a suitable building
for the President, Professors and Students; and to procure a Library, and Philosophical apparatus
for the same. The Legislature of the Province has likewise granted a liberal sum for the same
purpose; in consequence of which a building on a liberal scale is to be immediately erected
on a conspicuous part of the rising ground adjoining the town.

The most general seminary for the education of the bulk of the population is the Madras School.
The Lieutenant-Governor and a number of the first characters in the Province, have the management
of this seminary, which is incorporated by the name of "The Governor and Trustees of the Madras
School in New-Brunswick." As most of the Parish Schools in the Province are on the Madras system
of education, and under the direction of the corporation, I shall close this short sketch of
the state of learning in this Province with a statement of that institution copied from the
last report.

State of the Madras School in New-Brunswick, in July, 1824, viz.

Saint John,   in daily attendance 197 -- total entered 1222
Carleton,              "           96          "        143
Fredericton,           "           50          "         79
Douglas,               "           22          "         45
Queensborough,         "                       "         45
St. Andrews,           "           94          "        156
Grand Manan,        }  "           42          "         89
Grand Harbour,      }
North Head,            "           40          "         76
Westcock,              "           45          "        118
Sackville,                                     "         40
Shediac,               "           30          "         53
Peticodiac,            "           45          "         50
Kingston,                                               113
Springfield,           "           24          "         81
Gage Town,             "           25          "        117
Sussex Vale,           "           38          "        114
Newcastle,             "           39          "        166
Northesk,              "           42          "         66
Chatham,               "           40          "         51
Hampton,               "           26          "         75
Norton,                                        "         60
Maugerville,           "           28          "         52
 "   middle district,                          "         39
Fort Cumberland,       "           49          "        105
Point Debute,          "           52          "         62
Jolicure,              "           32          "         50
St. Georges,           "           38          "         72
Woodstock, middle   }  "           36          "        135
   district,        }
Upper District,        "           35          "         76
Dow's District,                                "         36
Wakefield, middle   }  "           21          "         90
   district,        }
Lower district,        "           21          "         86
Northampton,                                   "         35
Military Settlement }
            No. 1,  }  "           38          "        140
            No. 2,     "           36          "        131
            No. 3,     "           24          "        159
            No. 4,     "           24          "        116
Scotch Settlement,     "           20          "         36
                                                      -----
    In July, 1824                                     4,379
Add the number in the College at Fredericton,
as reported last year                                   357
                                                      -----
Total                                                 4,736
In July, 1823                                         3,396
                                                      -----
Increase during the year                              1,340

The trade of New-Brunswick may be comprised under the following heads:

EXPORTS TO THE WEST-INDIES.

Boards, shingles, fish, and small articles. The principal return for which is rum, sugar, molasses,
&c.

EXPORTS TO GREAT BRITAIN.

Squared timber, masts, spars, oars, lathwood, deals, furs, &c. Ship-building forms also a considerable
branch of trade at present. Some of which are built by contract for merchants in Great-Britain,
and others are built and loaded by merchants in the Province, and either employed by them in
the exportation of lumber, or sold in Britain. The returns for this trade are British merchandise,
and specie.

There was formerly a considerable trade carried on with the United States in gypsum, grindstones,
smoked salmon, &c. and for a short period in the productions of the West-Indies from the free
port of St. John, (as well as from Halifax in Nova-Scotia.) But the trade in West-India produce
is now totally at an end, and the other branches much fallen off, so that most of the flour,
corn, and bread stuffs imported from thence is paid for in specie, which is a great drain for
the cash of the Province: for there are nearly sixty thousand barrels of wheat and rye flour,
and from sixty-five to seventy thousand bushels of indian corn, imported annually, besides
corn meal, bread, &c.

The amount of imports in 1824 was five hundred and fourteen thousand five hundred and fifty-seven
pounds sterling, and the exports in the same year five hundred and twenty-six thousand nine
hundred and twenty-three, exclusive of exports from the port of St. Andrews, which amounted
to about one hundred thousand pounds, besides several vessels built at St. Peters, and other
places not in the above statement. The gross amount of the revenue collected at the different
ports in the Province, in 1824 was forty-four thousand six hundred and seventy pounds two shillings
and sixpence, New-Brunswick currency. This when the population of the Country is considered,
speaks much for the trade and resources of the Province.

As squared timber is the great staple of this trade, I shall set down the number of tons exported
yearly at three different periods, from which the reader may form a pretty correct idea of
the quantity usually shipped in a year.

In 1819 the quantity was 247,394 Tons. In 1822     "        "   266,450  " In 1824     "  
"   321,211  "

The above is the total amount from all the Ports in New-Brunswick.

The following statement will shew the total amount of exports and imports of every description
in the year 1824.

IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.

PORT OF SAINT JOHN, NEW-BRUNSWICK.

An account of the total number of Ships and Vessels that have entered inwards at this Port
and the Out-Bays within the district thereof, in the year 1824, with their Tonnage, number
of Men, and the quantity of Goods imported in the same Vessels, together with the value of
said Goods in Sterling Money.--Exclusive of Coasters.

SAINT JOHN.

432 Vessels--94,248 Tons--4,192 Men.

Wheat and Rye Flour, bbls.        32,512
Bread, ditto                       1,088
Corn, bushels                     37,917
Meal, barrels                      3,448
Rice, cwts.                        1,097
Beef and Pork, barrels             4,719
Sheep, number                         26
Horses, ditto                          3
Peas and Beans, bushels            1,145
Wine, gallons                     14,772
Brandy and Gin, gallons           29,682
Rum, gallons                     310,879
Molasses, gallons                110,579
Coffee, cwts.                        248
Pimento, lbs.                      9,742
Sugar, cwt.                        2,988
Salt, tons                         4,673
Naval Stores, barrels              2,254
Tobacco, cwts.                     1,334
Tea, chests                        1,415
Cordage, coils                     9,406
Coal, chaldrons                    3,703
Oak and Locust Wood, M. feet          62
Onions, Seeds, Apples, &c. bbls.   3,016
Staves, M.                            45
Shingles, M.                          27
Iron and Copper, tons              2,154
Hides, number                      7,724
Mahogany, Logwood, &c. tons          192
Bricks, M.                            21
Stone Ware, pieces                22,113
Cotton Wool, bales                   134
Slates, M.                            95
Oats, bushels                      9,863
Barley, bushels                    1,452
Wheat, bushels                     5,418
Tallow, hogsheads                     67
Wood Hoops, number                 2,400
Packages of British Merchandise,
  including cotton, silk
  and woollen Goods, Sail
  Cloth, Ironmongery, &c.         24,686

MIRAMICHI.

327 Vessels--94,601 Tons--4,274 Men.

Wheat Flour, barrels              17,285
Bread, barrels                     1,063
Corn, bushels                     17,262
Meal, barrels                     11,598
Rice, cwt.                           160
Beef and Pork, barrels             6,016
Peas and Beans, barrels            1,204
Naval Stores, barrels                212
Tobacco, cwts.                       727
Tea, chests                          280
Cordage, coils                     1,144
Coal, chaldrons                    1,063
Onions, Seeds, Apples, Nuts, &c.
  barrels                            710
Wine, gallons                      6,493
Brandy and Gin, gallons           23,533
Rum, gallons                      86,977
Molasses, gallons                 23,533
Coffee, cwts.                        126
Pimento, lbs.                        224
Sugar, cwts.                       2,462
Salt, tons                           410
Iron and Copper, tons                125
Hides, number                         94
Mahogany, Logwood, &c. tons           42
Bricks, M.                            82
Stone Ware, pieces                60,300
Slates, M.                            34
Barley, bushels                      200
British Merchandise, packages      3,600

SAINT PETERS.

33 Vessels--6,143 Tons--302 Men.

Wheat Flour, barrels                 184 Bread, ditto                          34 Rice, cwt.
16 Beef and Pork, barrels               130 Wine, gallons                         61 Brandy
and Gin, gallons            1,078 Rum, gallons                       2,596 Molasses, gallons
1,675 Sugar, cwts.                          48 Salt, tons                           250 Naval
Stores, barrels                 10 Tobacco, cwts.                        13 Tea, chests   
4 Cordage, coils                        67 Coal, chaldrons                       24 Iron and
Copper, tons                 35 British Merchandise, packages        142

RICHIBUCTO.

86 Vessels--17,490 Tons--830 Men.

Wheat Flour, barrels                 889 Bread, ditto                         283 Meal, ditto
631 Beef and Pork, barrels               493 Peas and Beans, bushels              135 Wine,
gallons                        968 Brandy and Gin, gallons            3,581 Rum, gallons  
10,821 Molasses, gallons                  5,967 Coffee, cwts.                         15 Sugar,
cwts.                         202 Salt, tons                           680 Naval Stores, barrels
39 Tobacco, cwts.                        29 Tea, chests                           36 Cordage,
coils                        56 Coal, chaldrons                      125 Iron and Copper, tons
25 British Merchandise, packages      1,322

SHEDIAC.

19 Vessels--4,018 Tons--208 Men.

Wheat Flour, barrels                   7 Bread, barrels                        60 Beef and
Pork, barrels                29 Brandy and Gin, gallons              120 Rum, gallons     
20 Molasses, gallons                    105 Sugar, cwts.                           9 Salt,
tons                           180 Naval Stores, barrels                 17 Tobacco, cwt. 
11 Cordage, coils                        23 Coal, chaldrons                        7 Iron and
Copper, tons                 28 British Merchandise, packages        176

RESTIGOUCHE.

13 Vessels--2,226 Tons--118 Men.

Bread, barrels                         5 Beef and Pork, barrels                 7 Peas and
Beans, bushels               14 Rum, gallons                         972 Molasses, gallons
1,010 Sugar, cwts                            3 Oats, bushels                         40 Salt,
tons                            50 Naval Stores, barrels                  5 Cordage, coils
33 Coal, chaldrons                        6 Iron and Copper, tons                  6 Stone
Ware, pieces                 3,000 British Merchandise, packages         50

DORCHESTER.

4 Vessels--841 Tons--37 Men.

Total value of Goods            £514,557, sterling

CLEARED OUTWARDS.

SAINT JOHN.

417 Vessels--102,300 Tons--4,198 Men.

Timber, tons                     114,116 Pine Board and Plank, M. feet     11,534 Staves, M.
1,923 Shingles, M.                         491 Masts and Spars                    1,918 Oars
and Oar Rafters               2,103 Handspikes, number                   595 Hogshead Shooks
4,461 Lathwood, cords                    1,435 Dry Fish, quintals                15,102 Pickled
Fish, barrels              9,868 Smoaked Herrings, boxes            6,961 Fish Oil, barrels
168 Gypsum, tons                       5,183 Grindstones, number                6,013 Salt
Meat, barrels                    90 Potatoes, bushels                    710 Flour, barrels
332 Bread, barrels                       140 Rice, cwts.                           23 Rum,
gallons                      45,870 Molasses, do.                        525 Pimento, lbs.
5,442 Sugar, cwts.                         166 Naval Stores, barrels                271 Tobacco,
cwts.                       371 Coal, tons                           749 Mahogany & Camwood,
&c. tons          17 Apples, Onions, &c. barrels          330 Smoaked Salmon, number      
3,662 Ox Horns, hogsheads                   20 Old Copper, tons                      25 Salt,
tons                           245 Hogsheads of Furs                     15 Corn Meal, barrels
50

MIRAMICHI.

331 Vessels--94,800 Tons--4,341 Men.

Timber, tons                     141,384 Pine Boards and Plank, M. feet     1,256 Staves, M.
304 Shingles, M.                           8 Masts and Spars                    1,400 Oars
and Oar Rafters                 702 Handspikes, number                   888 Lathwood, cords
3,080 Dry Fish, quintals                   263 Pickled Fish, barrels                580 Smoked
Herrings, boxes                70 Flour, barrels                       737 Bread, do.     
7 Rum, gallons                       8,627 Naval Stores, barrels                 45 Tobacco,
cwts.                       106

SAINT PETERS.

32 Vessels--6,095 Tons--289 Men.

Timber, tons                       8,308 Pine Boards and Plank, M. feet        52 Staves, M.
8 Masts and Spars                      191 Handspikes, number                   159 Lathwood,
cords                      274 Dry Fish, quintals                   800 Pickled Fish, barrels
155

RICHIBUCTO.

81 Vessels--17,285 Tons--820 Men.

Timber, tons                      24,269 Pine Boards and Plank, M. feet       134 Staves, M.
36 Masts and Spars                      545 Oars and Oar Rafters                 242 Handspikes,
number                 1,380 Lathwood, cords                      625

SHEDIAC.

19 Vessels--4,018 Tons--208 Men.

Timber, tons                       5,851 Pine Boards and Planks, M. feet       12 Masts and
Spars                      327 Oars and Oar Rafters                 184 Handspikes, number
96 Lathwood, cords                      184-1/2 Rum, gallons                         100 Tobacco,
cwts.                        50

RESTIGOUCHE.

14 Vessels--2,301 Tons--121 Men.

Timber, tons                       3,062 Pine Boards and Plank, M. feet         7 Masts and
Spars                       47 Handspikes, number                    32 Lathwood, cords   
30 Dry Fish, quintals                 2,000 Pickled Fish, barrels                403 Fish Oil,
barrels                     20

DORCHESTER.

4 Vessels--841 Tons--37 Men.

Timber, tons                       1,246 Pine Boards and Plank, M. feet         2 Masts and
Spars                        5 Oars and Oar Rafters                 110 Handspikes, number
374 Lathwood, cords                       29-1/2

   Value of Exports £362,043, sterling.

N.B. To the value of exports may be added the following Ships and Vessels built and registered
at this Port within the year 1824, by persons resident in this Province, either for proprietors
in the United Kingdom, or sent there for sale, as remittances for British Merchandise, or for
owners here, carrying on the Timber Trade.

60 Ships and Vessels, measuring 16,488 tons, at £10    £164,880
                                                      ---------
    Total                                              £526,923

PORT OF SAINT ANDREWS.

An account of the total number of Vessels, their Tonnage, number of Men, with the quantity
and quality of their Cargoes, entered at the Port of St. Andrews in the year 1824, ending the
5th January, 1825.

156 Vessels--29,687 Tons--1,406 Men.

Rum, gallons                     104,259 Wines from Madeira, pipes             36 Ditto, Hogsheads
46 Ditto, Quarter Casks                  38 Ditto, Half Quarter Casks             10 Molasses,
gallons                 26,768 Gin and Brandy, gallons            1,391 Wine from Great-Britain,
galls.    1,476 Brown Sugar, cwt.                    640 Shrub, casks                     
6 Coffee, barrels and bags              68 Tobacco, hogsheads                     4 Bricks,
M.                            60 Naval Stores, barrels                327 Canvas, bolts   
159 Cordage, coils                       831 Made Sails, sets                       3 Soap
and Candles, boxes              323 Beer and Porter, barrels             118 Nails and Wrought
Iron, kegs         198 Ship Chandlery, packages              13 Beef and Pork, barrels    
57 Coals, chaldrons                     314 Paint, kegs                          439 Tea, chests
47 Chain Cables                          10 Glass, boxes, &c.                    120 Pieces
of Earthenware & Cast Iron    873 Oak Staves, M.                       120-1/2 Wheat and Rye
Flour, bbls.         5,732 Biscuit, barrels                     727 Rice, casks and bags  
43 Corn, Meal and Grain, bushels     12,100 Peas & Beans & Rye Grain, bus.       370 Boards
and Plank, M. feet             6-1/2 Wood and Timber, feet             22,750 Fruit, barrels
1,090 Sheep, number of                     200 Merchandize, packages                585 Salt,
tons                         1,998 Iron, tons                            68 Earthenware, crates
105 Cotton Wool, bales                    22 Mahogany, logs                        11 Green
Hides                          305 Linseed Oil, casks                     4 Pimento, bags and
casks                8 Logwood, tons                          1 Tobacco Pipes, boxes      
25 Copper Bolts, cwt.                    47 Horses, number of                     28 Piano
Fortes                           1 Carriages                              1 Horned Cattle 
678 Furs, bales and boxes                  3

PORT OF SAINT ANDREWS.

EXPORTS.

175 Vessels--33,493 Tons--1,543 Men.

192 Plaster Paris Vessels--13,040 Tons--657 Men.

Birch and Pine Timber, tons       25,975 Boards and Plank, M. feet          8,386 Cod Fish,
quintals                10,540 Shingles, M.                       2,412 Lathwood, cords   
753 Spars, number                      1,559 Small Poles, number                1,542 Sawed
Laths, bundles                 172 Oars, Oar Rafters & Handspikes     1,093 Oak, Ash and Spruce
Staves, M.       284 Ship Knees                            50 Naval Stores, barrels       
234 Cotton Wool, bales                    22 Pickled Fish, barrels              3,132 Smoked
Herrings, boxes             1,067 Beef and Pork, barrels and kits       69 Oil, barrels   
69 Rum, puncheons                       285 Sugar, barrels                        10 Coffee,
barrels and bags               7 N.B. Vinegar, barrels                 40 Fruit, Onions and
Potatoes, bbls.    126 N.B. Gin, barrels                     37 Salt, tons                
45 Iron, tons                            12 Birch, M.                             35 Calf Skins
and Sides Leather, No.     48 Soap and Candles, boxes            1,212 Butter, firkins    
2 Tobacco, hogsheads                     6 Smoked Tobacco, hogsheads             21 Merchandize,
packages                 22 Wines, pipes                          26 Ditto hogsheads      
33 Ditto quarter casks                   27 Ditto half quarter casks               1 Wheat
and Rye Flour, bbls.         2,839 Bread and Biscuit, barrels            88 Rice, casks and
barrels               22 Indian Corn and Meal, bushels      2,482 Peas and Beans, bushels 
22 Plaster of Paris, tons            15,576

The Articles of Exports the Production of this Province and the Fisheries, are considered when
shipped, worth the following values, viz.:

Pine and Birch Timber,   20s.   sterling  Per Ton. Lumber and Plank,        40s.          
per M. Shingles,                12s. 6d.         per M. Lathwood,                20s.     
per Cord. Spars,                    5s.             Each. Small Poles,              2s. 6d.
Each. Oars and Oar Rafters,     5s.             per pair. Staves,                  60s.   
per M. Dry Fish,                12s. 6d.         per quintal. Pickled Fish,            20s.
per barrel. Smoked Herrings,          3s.             per box. Oil,                     80s.
per barrel. Plaster Paris,           10s.             per ton.

The whole value of the above Exports may be about £100,000.

From the foregoing statement it plainly appears that chief of the export trade of this Province
consists of timber, which is its natural stock or capital; and as there are many articles taken
in exchange from the mother country, which are indispensably necessary to the inhabitants of
this Province; it points out the necessity of paying strict attention to its preservation.
This being the case, the preservation of our forests becomes of prime importance to the prosperity
of the Province.

The evils that must arise to the Province, by allowing the timber to be monopolized and hastily
cut off are many. The timber standing in the Country, particularly on the Crown Lands, may
be considered as so much capital or stock, to secure a permanent trade, and promote the solid
improvement of the Country. Most of the lands in this Province where pine is found are intermixed
with other timber, and although the precise spots on which the pine grows, are unfit for agriculture,
without much labor; yet there are most always spots adjoining, where a settler may cultivate
with success: so that in a lot of two or three hundred acres, there is generally enough for
tillage, and a man settling on such land could always choose his spot for farming, and keep
his timber to cut at his leisure. His pine so reserved would as long as it lasted serve him
as a resource, from whence, after attending to his farming in the summer, he could draw returns
during the winter, for such supplies as would be necessary for his family, and for improving
his farm.

To make this more evident, we will suppose a man settling on a wilderness lot--like most settlers
he has but little save his own labour--perhaps he has a small family--he commences with cutting
down a small spot, and erecting a hut--say in the summer or fall, he then moves on his family,
and looks round for sustenance till he can raise his first crop--in doing this his funds are
exhausted, and he wants by his own labour to replenish them during the winter, and provide
a few implements of husbandry, and nails, &c. for building a barn--now supposing his lot to
be back from the river, and at a distance from old settlements where labour is wanted--what
does he do?--why he resorts to his pine--to the simple manufactory before noticed, and makes
a few tons, say twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty, according to his ability--carefully cutting
the under brush and timber, so as to put his land where he is working in a fair train for clearing--this
timber he probably gets hauled to the water on shares, if he is very poor and has no team;
the returns for which the next spring, furnishes him with supplies, and enables him to continue
on his land and prosecute his farming. If he cannot do without the return of his timber till
spring, he applies to a merchant, who if the man is of good fame, advances him such articles
as may be particularly necessary for his family. This enables him to find labour on his own
lot, and stay with his family: whereas if he has no such resource, he must leave his home,
and go to a distance from his family, seeking labour; and probably they may be so circumstanced
as not to be left safely alone, and he has to take them with him, which breaks up his family
and prevents him from settling.

If a number of families commence a settlement together, where the timber has not been destroyed,
but where a fair proportion is still growing on the land, they exchange labour with each other,
and by their joint exertions, manufacture and transport their own lumber to market. In this
way they are enabled from year to year to prosecute their settlement and pay for their grants;
the timber answering as a first crop fully grown, and a resource to make returns for necessaries.--By
this method, as the pine disappears, houses and barns will rise in its place, and the country,
instead of a barren waste, will exhibit flourishing settlements, peopled with a race who will
know the value of their improvements; and feel their interest identified with the country:
and whose attachment to the Government will increase with their growing possessions. Their
children, raised on the soil, from the strong principles of early association, will feel that
interest in the welfare of the country, that no transient advantage can produce; and grow up
an ornament and strength to the Province. On the contrary, if the lumber is cut off by mere
speculators, the land will be left in an impoverished state, much valuable timber will be wantonly
destroyed, and the places from whence the timber is taken will be left an uncultivated waste;
settlers will neither have the inclination or ability to occupy them. While the major part
of the men employed in getting the lumber for the merchants, instead of making a comfortable
provision for their families, will wear out the prime of their days without making any permanent
establishment; and keep their families shifting about the country like vagrants. Their children,
for the want of employment, and the direction of their fathers, brought up in idleness--their
education and morals neglected, and bad habits acquired, will be the reverse of those before
noticed: and many of them will become a vagrant race, unconcerned or uninterested in the welfare
of the country, and in many instances a nuisance to it. While their parents, after they get
unfit for the business, will be turned off in debt.

In short, it will be the most direct way to prevent the settlement of the back lands, and to
produce (what is the bane of all countries) a race of inhabitants who have no interest in the
soil or welfare of the Province.

Statement of the expenses on one thousand tons of pine timber, manufactured on the Wabskahagan,
a branch of the river Tobique:--

The Secretary's, Governor's, and Surveyor General's fees of
  office, including the charge for writing petition     1 10  0
Duty on 1000 tons, at 1s                       50  0  0
Less by amount included in fees, &c.            1  5  0
                                               --------48 15  0
Incidental expenses to the applicant                    0 15  0
Surveyor's fees for measuring the timber berth          7  0  0
Expenses for axemen and chainmen                        5 10  0
Travelling expenses thence and back, five hundred miles 8  0  0
                                                      --------- 71 10 0
Ten men at £5 per month, and an overseer at £10, say for
  six months                                          360  0  0
Six yoke of oxen, at £30 per yoke                     180  0  0
One pair draught horses                                50  0  0
One boat, sail, and gear                               36  0  0
Two canoes with paddles                                 6  0  0
Sleds, chains, harness, &c.                            27 10  0
Eleven men's provisions for six months, at 85s. per head,
  per month                                           274 10  0
Hay for oxen, &c. 30 tons, at £10                     300  0  0
Grain for ditto                                        25  0  0
                                                      ---------1259 0 0
Total expense on one thousand tons of timber, at the         ----------
   brow ready for rafting                                   £1330 10  0
Expense of rafting, anchors, cables, ropes, &c.                50  0  0
                                                            £1380 10  0
  Deduct for articles that may be useful another season, viz.--
Oxen, Horses, Boat, tackle, &c.                       214  0  0
Canoes, sleds, harness, anchors, &c. &c.               50  0  0
                                                    --------- 264  0  0
                                                             ----------
                Total amount of expenses                    £1116 10  0

From the foregoing statement (admitting it to be near the truth) it appears that the expenses
on one thousand tons of timber got on the river Tobique, amounts to £1116:10:0--to which is
to be added the expense and risk of taking it down to Saint John, a distance of about two hundred
and fifty miles--the loss by casualties on a rapid river, where men and teams frequently break
through the ice, and are swept away by the velocity of the current. When all the above expenses
are deducted from the returns of the timber, it will leave but a little for those who carry
on the business, and very often involves them in inextricable difficulties.

The preceding statement points out the necessity of adopting a more prudent system in conducting
the timber business. Not to push the trade to such an extent--to retrench the expenses, by
raising the heavy parts of the supplies near the timber districts; and to follow up the timber
trade with the improvement of the country and cultivation of the soil.

Another great drawback to the prosperity of the Province is the great consumption of ardent
liquors--partly occasioned by the present modes of conducting the timber business. The amount
of spirituous liquors imported and consumed in the Province in 1824, at the least calculation
was £120,000, exclusive of the County of Charlotte; and add to this amount the cost of the
transport of the liquor to the interior and the enormous charges on the article in the distant
parts of the Province, the cost to the consumer may be fairly reckoned at treble the amount,
making in the whole the gross sum of £360,000 for ardent liquors alone, consumed by the inhabitants
of the Province, being near twenty gallons on an average for every male over sixteen years of age.

The number of inhabitants in this Province, according to the census of last year, is seventy-four
thousand one hundred and seventy-six--besides the large settlement of Madawaska and the parish
of West Isles; and as it is probable the numbers in the different parishes are taken in some
instances under the real amount, the whole population may be fairly rated in round numbers
at eighty thousand. The subjoined statement will show the population of the different counties
and parishes in 1824:

Population of the Province of New-Brunswick, IN THE YEAR 1824.

--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
                    |       Whites.         |    People of Colour.  |
                    |   Males.    Females.  |  Males.   |  Females. |
--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
C
o   |               |  A  |  U  |  A  |  U  |  A  |  U  |  A  |  U  |  i
u   |               |  b  |  n  |  b  |  n  |  b  |  n  |  b  |  n  |  n P
n   |               |  o  |  d  |  o  |  d  |  o  |  d  |  o  |  d  |T   a
t   |               |  v  |  e  |  v  |  e  |  v  |  e  |  v  |  e  |o e r
i   |               |  e  |  r  |  e  |  r  |  e  |  r  |  e  |  r  |t a i
e   |               |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |a c s
s   |               | 16  | 16  | 16  | 16  | 16  | 16  | 16  | 16  |l h h
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
    |Fredericton    | 526 | 352 | 470 | 392 |  29 |  21 |  34 |  25 | 1849
    |Saint Mary     | 259 | 242 | 216 | 223 |   7 |   8 |  11 |   6 |  972
    |Douglas        | 365 | 340 | 289 | 306 |  19 |  18 |  15 |  15 | 1367
Y   |Kingsclear     | 226 | 173 | 190 | 155 |  15 |  28 |  22 |  23 |  832
o   |Queensbury     | 205 | 172 | 149 | 153 |  10 |   6 |   6 |  15 |  716
r   |Prince William | 159 | 142 | 117 | 116 |   3 |   3 |   2 |   3 |  545
k   |Northampton    | 182 | 130 | 133 | 123 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  568
     Woodstock      | 267 | 181 | 186 | 179 |   1 |   2 | ... | ... |  816
    |Wakefield      | 217 | 276 | 267 | 218 |   1 |   1 | ... | ... | 1010
    |Kent           | 645 | 596 | 457 | 597 |   2 | ... | ... | ... | 2297
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
    |City of
S J |  St. John     |2371 |1731 |2361 |1632 |  94 |  72 | 139 |  88 | 8488
a o |Portland,
i h |  1st district | 628 | 392 | 447 | 340 |   1 |   1 |   3 |   1 | 1813
n n |Portland,
t   |  2d district  | 386 | 242 | 228 | 207 |  42 |  40 |  43 |  42 | 1230
    |Lancaster      | 216 | 150 | 157 | 151 |  38 |  31 |  28 |  22 |  793
    |Saint Martin   | 154 | 147 | 133 | 148 |   1 | ... | ... | ... |  583
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
    |Kingston       | 503 | 386 | 382 | 365 |   7 |   5 |   4 |   3 | 1655
K   |Sussex         | 487 | 460 | 414 | 433 |  11 |  12 |   7 |   9 | 1833
i   |Hampton        | 462 | 385 | 375 | 314 |   4 |   7 |   5 |   7 | 1559
n   |Norton         | 152 | 115 | 100 | 109 |   5 |   4 |   8 |   9 |  502
g   |Westfield      | 182 | 181 | 152 | 178 |   7 |   7 |   4 |   2 |  713
s   |Springfield    | 241 | 212 | 210 | 234 |   9 |   7 |   8 |   3 |  924
    |Greenwich      | 184 | 185 | 178 | 185 |   1 |   2 |   1 |   8 |  744
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
Q   |Gagetown       | 180 | 124 | 140 | 133 |   7 |   5 |   9 |  10 |  606
u   |Waterborough   | 486 | 643 | 403 | 444 |   1 |  10 |   7 |  19 | 2023
e   |Wickham        | 306 | 297 | 236 | 259 |   2 | ... | ... |   1 | 1100
e   |Hampstead      | 193 | 188 | 164 | 165 |   5 |   6 |   4 |   1 |  723
n   |Brunswick      |  50 |  64 |  36 |  39 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  189
s   |Brunswick District Butternut
    |  Ridge        |  24 |  29 |  19 |  28 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  100
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
    |St. Andrews    | 653 | 464 | 574 | 532 |  12 |   8 |  13 |   7 | 2263
    |St. Stephen    | 518 | 393 | 397 | 358 |   3 |   1 | ... |   3 | 1673
C   |St. David      | 278 | 233 | 230 | 264 | ... | ... | ... | ... | 1005
h   |St. George,
a   |  1st district | 245 | 173 | 166 | 159 |   1 | ... |   1 | ... |  745
r   |St. George,
l   |  2d district  | 191 | 174 |  66 | 170 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  701
o   |St. Patrick    | 217 | 203 | 164 | 178 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  762
t   |St. James      | 121 | 116 | 109 | 107 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  453
t   |Pennfield      | 223 | 120 |  93 | 120 |   2 | ... | ... | ... |  558
e   |Campo Bello    | 167 | 123 | 123 |  95 | ... |   1 | ... | ... |  509
    |Grand Manan    | 157 | 170 | 138 | 132 | ... |   1 | ... | ... |  598
    |West Isles     | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ...
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
S
u   |Maugerville    | 152 | 112 | 115 |  92 |   4 |   3 |   3 |   3 |  484
n   |Sheffield      | 227 | 139 | 187 | 156 |   5 |   9 |   5 |   7 |  735
b   |Burton         | 432 | 298 | 322 | 269 |   4 |   6 |   4 |   3 | 1338
u   |Lincoln        | 200 | 167 | 142 | 158 |   1 | ... |   2 | ... |  670
r
y
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
W
e
s   |Dorchester     | 706 | 748 | 611 | 672 |   8 | ... | ... | ... | 2737
t   |Sackville      | 444 | 464 | 395 | 415 |   6 |   7 |   4 |   7 | 1744
m   |Westmorland    | 215 | 208 | 192 | 229 |   2 |  13 |  11 |   9 |  883
o   |Hillsborough   | 281 | 291 | 226 | 344 | ... |   5 | ... |   3 | 1152
r   |Monckton       |  85 |  94 |  82 |  79 | ... | ... |   2 | ... |  342
e   |Botsford       | 200 | 216 | 162 | 195 | ... | ... | ... |   1 |  774
l   |Salisbury      | 171 | 170 | 147 | 177 | ... | ... | ... |   1 |  666
a   |Hopewell       | 292 | 256 | 225 | 232 | ... | ... | ... | ... | 1005
n
d
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+
    |Newcastle      | 641 | 326 | 377 | 313 | ... | ... | ... | ... | 1657
    |Chatham        | 451 | 296 | 319 | 382 |   1 | ... |   2 |   1 | 1452
    |Ludlow,
    |  1st district | 407 | 191 | 147 | 173 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  918
N   |Ludlow,
o   |  2d district  | 286 |  38 |  29 |  37 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  390
r   |Northesk,
t   |  1st district | 921 | 107 | 119 |  96 | ... | ... | ... | ... | 1243
h   |Northesk,
u   |  2d district  |  47 |  60 |  41 |  52 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  200
m   |Alnwick,
b   |  1st district |  93 |  54 |  44 |  54 | ... | ... | ... | ... |  245
e   |Alnwick,
r   |  2d district  | 137 |  83 |  72 |  80 |   1 | ... | ... | ... |  373
l   |Carleton       | 757 | 429 | 376 | 402 | ... | ... | ... |   1 | 1965
a   |Beresford      | 327 | 294 | 225 | 228 |   6 |   3 |   1 |   2 | 1086
n   |Glenelg        | 323 | 174 | 175 | 163 |   1 | ... | ... | ... |  836
d   |Saumarez,
    |  1st district  | 299 | 209 | 201 | 234 |   2 |   2 |   1 |   1 | 949
    |Saumarez,
    |  2d district   | 524 | 446 | 408 | 450 | ... | ... | ... | ... | 1828
    |Wellington      | 420 | 393 | 335 | 406 | ... | ... |   1 | ... | 1555
    |Nelson          | 574 | 185 | 201 | 166 |   3 | ... |   2 |   1 | 1132
----+---------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+

NUMBER OF INHABITANTS IN THE DIFFERENT COUNTIES.

    County of York                   10,972
    County of Saint John             12,907
    County of Kings                   7,930
    County of Queens                  4,741
    County of Charlotte               9,267
    County of Sunbury                 3,227
    County of Westmorland             9,303
    County of Northumberland         15,829
                                     ------
       Total in the Province         74,176

The enrolled Militia amount to about twelve thousand. They are divided into twenty-three battalions;
the battalions are composed of six, eight, or more companies, according to local circumstances.
The companies consist of one captain, two subalterns, three sergeants, and sixty rank and file,
except flank companies, which are allowed four sergeants. Where districts are in remote situations,
and not sufficiently populous to form two companies, but exceed the number of sixty effective
men, eighty are allowed to be enrolled in one company. They assemble by companies two days
in a year for drill; and by battalions or divisions for muster and inspection, once or oftener,
if the Commander-in-Chief thinks it necessary. An Inspecting Field Officer is appointed to
inspect the battalions at their general muster. He visits the different corps successively,
and reports to the Commander-in-Chief. He is paid a certain sum per annum, which is granted
yearly by the Legislature. The Militia Law is continually undergoing alterations, and has not
yet attained to that perfection, that such an important branch of our provincial constitution
requires. The last year two Inspecting Officers were appointed to inspect the two great divisions
of the Province.

There are abundant materials to form a good effective Militia in this Province. The youth are
in general docile and orderly, and have a great aptitude to attain the requisite discipline;
there are also a number of disbanded soldiers and other persons acquainted with discipline,
scattered through the country; so that there are few districts, but where there are persons
qualified to act as drills. The want of arms is indeed a great check to the military spirit,
as nothing is more taking to boys when first put to drill, than to have arms; and although
many requisites of discipline, such as marching, wheeling, &c. can be acquired full as well
without them; yet nothing makes a young lad so alert as to have a musket put into his hands.

To get persons to excel in any thing, it is requisite first of all if possible to create an
attachment and liking to it; and to get the youth fully engaged in acquiring martial discipline,
it is a primary object to make it pleasing to them. If therefore the different corps were at
their musters to be supplied with arms and a few rounds of cartridges, and taught to skirmish,
it would act as the greatest stimulous to the youth, and would soon make an alteration for
the better at the trainings; by making them a recreation and time of amusement: while it would
make the Militia familiar with the use of arms--which is at present altogether lost sight of.

The writer is well aware that many arms formerly issued to the Militia have been destroyed,
and that this might again happen; but surely some method might be adopted to prevent such abuses,
and still to furnish the different corps with arms while at drill, by forming depots for lodging
the arms, and appropriating some of the fines to keep them in order. In scattered districts,
one, two or more companies arms might be kept together; and in towns Arsenals might be erected
where two or three thousand stand might be deposited. Such buildings would not only be highly
useful, but ornamental to the different places: and as there are but few serviceable arms in
the Province at present, some steps should be taken to procure a sufficient number, and not
to let the country remain in its present naked condition. It certainly appears like an anomaly
in our preparations for defence, to expend time and money in improving our Militia, and not
provide the means of arming and making them efficient if they should be wanted. If (as the
preamble to the Militia Law states) "a well regulated Militia is essential to the security
of this Province," it is equally necessary that the Province should possess the means of arming
that Militia. If arms could not be procured from the Crown, it would be advisable to appropriate
a part of the Provincial revenue for the purchase of a sufficient number to supply the Militia
in case of emergency; which could be either sold to the Militiamen, or placed in the Arsenals,
and issued occasionally to the different corps as the Government should think proper.

Should the Province ever be invaded, its defence will not wholly consist in defending fortified
posts or in engagements with large bodies in open field, but by taking advantage of the natural
fastnesses of the country, such as woods, deep hollows, hills, rivers, brooks, &c. with which
the Province abounds.

This points out the necessity of having the Militia trained to sharpshooting and such exercises
as will be beneficial in the hour of danger; and not merely taught a few parade movements,
or how to receive a reviewing officer.

The Indians in New-Brunswick are fast declining, and although several attempts have been made
to induce them to form permanent settlements and become planters, they still continue their
migratory mode of life. The attempts that have been made to civilize them by educating their
children have been equally unsuccessful. The Romish religion appears to be the most congenial
to them, as well as to the French. This arises in a great measure from its outward pomp and
external forms imposing on the uncultivated mind. They yield an implicit obedience to the Romish
Missionaries, who instruct them in religion, regulate their marriages, and censure or approve
their conduct, and so successful have been their endeavours, that but few depredations are
committed by the Indians on property, although they are frequently reduced to the most extreme
want.--The Baron LA HOUTAN, who has enumerated forty-nine Nations of Indians in Canada, and
Acadia, names the following Tribes as the original inhabitants of Nova-Scotia:--The Abenakie,
Micmac, Canabus, Mahingans, Openangans, Soccokis, and Etechemins, from whom our present Indians
are descended. As the customs, manners, and dress, of the Indians have been often described,
I shall not therefore swell this article by repeating old stories. Besides the conical cap,
the blanket, leggins, and moccasins, worn by all the tribes; the women among the New-Brunswick
Indians frequently wear a round hat, a shawl, and short clothes, resembling the short gown
and petticoat worn by the French and Dutch women. The Indian language is bold and figurative,
abounding in hyperbolical expressions, and is said to be susceptible of much elegance. To give
the reader some notion of the manner in which these people conduct their conferences with each
other, and with Europeans, I shall subjoin an extract of a conference, or talk, held at Quebec,
with the Governor General of Canada, during the last American War.

                                            QUEBEC, 17TH MARCH, 1814.

Thursday having been appointed for holding the Council, the Chiefs and Warriors assembled,
and after shaking hands with His Excellency, as before, NEWASH accompanied by his Interpreter,
again presented himself in the middle of the room, and pronounced the following Speech, or talk.

    SPEECH OF NEWASH.

    "Father--Listen.--You will hear from me truth. It is the same as
    what the Chiefs and Warriors now here have to say.

    "Father--Listen.--Open your ears to your children, to your red
    children that are in the west. They are all of one mind: although
    they are so far off and scattered on different lands, they hear
    what I am now saying.

    "Father--Listen.--You have told us by the talk of your Warriors,
    twice Father, that we were to fight on the flanks and in the rear
    of your Warriors, but we have always gone in front Father; and that
    it is in this way we have lost so many of our young Warriors, our
    women and children.

    "Father--Listen.--The Americans have said they would kill you first
    Father, and then destroy your red children; but when you sent us
    the hatchet we took hold of it Father and made use of it Father, as
    you know.

    "Father--Listen.--Your red children want back their old boundary
    lines, that they may have the lands which belong to them, and this
    Father when the war began, you promised to get for them.

    "Father--Listen.--Your red children have suffered a great deal,
    they are sad, indeed they are pitiful, they want your assistance
    Father. They want arms for their Warriors, and clothes for their
    women and children. You do not know the number of your red children
    Father. There are many who never yet received any arms or clothing.
    It is necessary at present, Father, to send more than you formerly
    did.

    "Father--Listen.--At the beginning of the war you promised us when
    the Americans would put their hand forward you would draw yours
    back. Now Father we request when the Americans put their hand out,
    (as we hear they mean to do) knock it away Father, and the second
    time when they put out their hand, draw your sword.--If not Father,
    the Americans will laugh at us, and say our Great Father, who is
    beyond the Great Lake is a coward Father.

    "Father--Listen.--The Americans are taking our lands from us every
    day, they have no hearts, Father, they have no pity for us. They
    want to drive us beyond the setting sun. But Father, we hope,
    although we are few, and are here as it were upon a little Island,
    our Great and Mighty Father, who lives beyond the Great Lake, will
    not forsake us in our distress, but will continue to remember his
    faithful red children.

    "This is all I have to say. This is from our Chiefs and Warriors,
    this is all they have to say."

NEWASH then advanced to His Excellency, and presented him with the Black Wampum and Bloody Belt.

His Excellency the Governor-in-Chief then made the Chiefs and Warriors the following answer
to the talks or speeches that had been addressed to him in their behalf.

    "My Children.--I thank the Great Spirit for his protection of you on
    your long journey, and I rejoice to meet you at Quebec, the Great
    Council Fire on this side the Great Lake.

    "My Children.--You have freely and forcibly spoken your sentiments,
    and I am happy to have heard from your own mouths, your thoughts,
    as I know on these occasions you always speak the truth. I am
    therefore delighted to hear my red children declare their
    attachment to the King our Great Father, beyond the Great Lake, and
    to myself and my Warriors.

    "My Children.--I have opened my ears and listened with attention to
    what you have said. My heart was sore when I heard of the death of
    a great warrior. It still bleeds when I think of his loss, and the
    misfortunes my children have met with during the war, in the death
    of many a wise chief and brave warrior, and some of your women and
    children who are gone to see the Great Spirit, before whom we must
    all one day appear.

    "My Children.--I thank the Great Spirit that I see you in my own
    dwelling, and converse with you face to face. Listen to my
    words--they are the words of truth. You have always heard this from
    my chiefs, and I now repeat them. We have taken each other by the
    hand and fought together. Our interests are the same--we must still
    continue to fight together: for the King, our great father,
    considers you as his children, and will not forget you or your
    interests at a peace. But to preserve what we hold, and recover
    from the enemy what belongs to us, we must make great exertions;
    and I rely on your courage, with the assistance of my chiefs and
    warriors, to drive the big knives from our land the ensuing summer.

    "My Children.--Our great father will give us new warriors from the
    other side of the great water, who will join with you in attacking
    the enemy, and will soon open the great road to your country, by
    which you used to receive your supplies, and which the enemy having
    stopped, has caused the distress and scarcity of goods you complain
    of: for I have never been in want of goods for you, but could not
    send them.

    "My Children.--Our success in the war must depend on our bravery and
    your young men listening to the advice of their chiefs--this you
    must always bear in mind. I recommend to you to open your ears when
    my chiefs speak to you, for they only wish for your good. Tell your
    brother warriors whom I may not see, that these are my words; and
    that though they are to destroy their enemies in battle, they must
    spare and shew mercy to women and children, and all prisoners.

    "My Children.--I have but one thing more to recommend to you, which
    you will not forget--you know that the only success that the enemy
    gained over us, last season, was owing to the want of provisions.
    There was much waste at Amherstberg--the consequence was that you
    and my warriors were forced to retreat. In future you must be
    careful of provisions, and use only what may be necessary; they are
    the same as powder and ball, we cannot destroy our enemies without
    them.

    "My Children.--You will not forget what I have said to you. This is
    my parole to the nations. (Here the black wampum is presented to
    NEWASH.) Let them know what I have said. Tell them they shall not
    be forgotten by their great father nor by me.--Take courage my
    children--be strong--and may the Great Spirit preserve you in the
    day of battle." (Here the bloody belt is presented.)

After the interpreter had presented the belt to NEWASH, he with several of the chiefs chaunted
parts of the war song:

    "Under the Cloud Island
    With this belt I go;
    By this my heart is strong,
    I shall have courage to die by the foe.

    "Now I take hold of this belt,
    Light as birds fly in the air;
    Strong is my heart, and round I go,
    Seeking to die by the foe."

While this song was chaunting, several short speeches were made by the Indians. One of them
said--"There is our father--here is the belt--there you are--the Great Spirit presides--now
we are one, and none can flinch--if we stand by our father, he will stand by us. Our path is
in the west--the war shall brighten there--the sky begins to clear--the light falls on our
lands, and soon again shall our women and children be on them. You Saulks--you Chippeways,
and all you of different nations, we are all one. We will fight them with our father, and never
cease to fight while we have life, or until we have got back our lands."

The names of twelve Indian chiefs, inhabiting the coast of Acadia at the time the French peasants
submitted to the British Government, will be found in the appendix to this work.

Lands in New-Brunswick are held in fee simple or free socage. The grants are immediately from
the Crown. The subjoined table will shew the fees on single Grants, or where a number of Grantees
are included in one patent, at present taken at the several offices.

TABLE OF FEES ON GRANTS.

+---+-------+-------+-----+---------+---------+------+-----+--------+ |   |G      |       |
|         |         |      |     |        | |   |o      |       |     |         |         |
|     |        | |   |v      |   S   |     |         |         |      |     |        | | N
|e      |   e   |     |         |         |      |C    |        | | u |r      |   c   |   
|         |      p  |      |o    |        | | m |n      |      |     |    A    |R     u  |
S  |m    |        | | b |o      |   y   |     |    t    |e     r  |   u  |m    |        | |
e |r  t   |       |     |    t    |c     c  |   r  |i    |        | | r |   h   |   a   | 
|    o    |e     h  |   v  |s  C |        | |   |i  e  o|   n   |     |    r    |i  i  a  |
e  |s  r |        | | o |n     f|   d   |     |    n    |v  n  s  |   y  |i  o |        | |
f |c  w   |       |  A  |    e    |e  c  e  |   o  |o  w | Total. | |   |l  a  s|   R   | 
u  |    y    |r  l     |   r  |n  n |        | | a |u  r  u|   e   |  d  |    -    |-  u  m
|   -  |e    |        | | c |d  r  r|   g   |  i  |    G    |G  d  o  |   G  |r  L |      
| | r |i  e  v|   t   |  t  |    e    |e  i  n  |   e  |   a |        | | e |n  n  e|   r 
|  o  |    n    |n  n  e  |   n  |o  n |        | | s |g  t  y|   .   |  r  |    .    |.  g
y  |   . The purchase money (which is a sum of five shillings sterling for every fifty acres
above two hundred, payable to His Majesty, and called the King's purchase money,) is included
in the above scale of fees to the Receiver-General. According to the Royal Instructions, a
single man is entitled to one hundred acres of land, with an additional quantity provided he
can produce sufficient testimonials of his ability to cultivate more. A married man is entitled
to two hundred acres, with an additional quantity on proof of his ability to cultivate more:
but no more than five hundred acres is allowed to be granted to any person by the Colonial
Government.

The method of laying out lots in this Province, of a narrow front and extending a great distance
back, is very inconvenient to the settler. Being confined to a narrow front when he commences,
clearing, supposing, (which is often the case,) the land adjoining to be unoccupied, he merely
makes a lane through the wilderness, not half of which will produce a crop, on account of its
being shaded by the adjoining woods: which not only exclude the sun, but impoverish the land
by drawing the nourishment from the plants to the adjoining trees. To obviate this, and many
other inconveniences, it would be far better to lay out settlements, where the face of the
country would admit of it, in square blocks, or parallelograms; to contain two ranges of lots,
with roads at proper distances. The fronts of the lots to be extended, and their length contracted.
The lots to abut on the road; and extend back one-half the depth of the block:--The rear of
the lots in one range, abutting on the rear of lots in the next range. Or else, the settlements
might be divided into squares and sections, after the method adopted by the United States in
laying out new settlements, of which the following is a short outline:

Their townships are laid out in blocks of six miles square, the whole area containing 23,040
acres. Those squares are divided into thirty-six smaller squares or sections of a mile square,
containing each 640 acres. A quarter section is half a mile square, and contains one hundred
and sixty acres. The sixteenth section of each township is reserved to maintain schools, and
the sections two, five, twenty, twenty-three, thirty, and thirty-three, are sold in half-quarters.

By this method the limits of counties and parishes are accurately defined; the settlements
are every where interspersed with roads, and each man's field, instead of a narrow strip of
irregular figure and uncertain boundary, is a square laying compact and near a road, whose
contents are always easily ascertained. The rectangular method of laying out settlements, cannot
always be followed, on account of rivers, &c. which will cause gores and inequalities; but
whenever it can be adopted it offers many advantages.

The estates of persons dying intestate are distributed analogous to the custom of gavelkind
in Kent. The heir at law of such intestate shall be entitled to and receive a double portion
or two shares of the real estate left by such intestate, (saving the widow's right of dower.)
The remander to be equally distributed among all the children or their legal representatives,
including in the distribution the children of the half blood; and in case there be no children,
to the next of kindred in equal degree, and their representatives. Provided that children advanced
by settlement, or portions, not equal to the other shares, shall have so much of the surplusage,
as shall make the estate of all to be equal, except the heir at law, who shall have two shares,
or a double portion.

Advertisement.

Having for reasons stated in the commencement of this Work, given up my first design of adding
a brief connected history of the Province, I have inserted a few extracts relating to this
Country, in an Appendix; as they may be satisfactory to the reader, and useful in conveying
some knowledge of the early history of the Country. My reasons for abridging this Description
I have also stated, and have omitted many particulars necessary in a full description of a
Country, such as tables of Animals, Plants, Minerals, Weather, &c. as I could not obtain the
necessary materials, as but little attention has been paid to these subjects by persons qualified
for the task.

I have endeavoured to be as correct in what I have stated as possible, but no doubt many inaccuracies
will be discovered, as the information I have collected from different sources is liable to
error. But it must be remembered that in a first Work like this many difficulties will occur,
and having no tract to guide me, I have frequently wanted the necessary information. The Work,
however imperfect, must be useful, as giving the first general outline of the Province, and
interesting to every person who possesses a feeling of interest for his own fireside. In short,
persons who strike out a first tract in any thing, may be compared to pioneers who trace a
road for others to use and improve.

APPENDIX No. 1

Speech of His Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor at the meeting of the General Assembly, at
Fredericton, February 1, 1825.

    Mr. President, and Gentlemen of His Majesty's Council,
                 Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the House of Assembly,

    I have much satisfaction in meeting the Legislature of
    New-Brunswick--I am well persuaded that you will continue to
    promote and support the Interests and Institutions of the Province
    in a manner that will not fail to receive from me that ready and
    cordial concurrence which it will be my greatest pleasure to bestow
    upon all measures that may be calculated to advance the public
    good.

    It affords me great pleasure to have it in my power to congratulate
    you on the very prosperous state of the Provincial Finances. The
    Revenue of the last exceeds greatly that of any former year, and
    yields a large surplus beyond the charges incurred, within the
    corresponding period.

    Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the House of Assembly,

    I shall direct the Treasurer's Accounts to be laid before you, I
    rely upon your making the usual provisions for the Ordinary
    Services of the Province; and I am happy to acquaint you that the
    state of the Treasury is such as to enable you to provide for other
    objects of public interest and utility, to which your bounty has
    already been extended, and also to promote other important services
    which I shall hereafter bring before you.

    I have great pleasure in stating to you that I find the affairs of
    the Province to be generally in a very prosperous condition. It
    will be useful however, to observe closely, how far this prosperity
    depends upon adventitious circumstances and in what degree it rests
    upon our own inherent means and resources: for it is necessary to
    contemplate the condition in which the Country might be placed, by
    alterations in such of her transactions as may be deemed
    precarious, to feel, with due effect, the necessity, which I
    earnestly represent, of attending zealously to those internal
    resources which are not of that uncertain description. The trade of
    the Province is, at present, very active; but much of that activity
    depends obviously, upon external circumstances, on the permanency
    of which, it were imprudent to continue to stake so exclusively,
    the well being of the Country. It will be prudent, therefore, to
    endeavour to open channels by which we may make our Commerce more
    general, consequently less precarious, and particularly to
    establish and improve commercial intercourse with our sister
    Colonies. Taking from them, what we require, we may make returns
    by some important operations of our industry, and particularly by
    the proceeds of an advantageous trade which this transaction would
    greatly extend; contributing thus to each others wants, in a way
    mutually beneficial: and, in an union of interests, promoting and
    consolidating strong and lasting ties.

    Other channels for commercial operations of very advantageous
    natures invite us to cultivate with increased activity, that rich
    source of wealth (one of our natural advantages) which our
    Fisheries present! These, if rendered more productive, will afford
    us great additional facilities in trade with the new States of
    South America: and there are favourable openings in the liberal
    policy of the present times, which should encourage us to
    cultivate, by every means, commercial intercourse with those
    States. By your wisdom and bounty the Fisheries have been improved
    on remote parts of the coasts of British America; but I recommend
    you to consider whether the Home or Coast Fisheries might not be
    brought more under the fostering and stimulating influence of your
    bounty by some extension of its provisions. The main branch of our
    manufacturing industry (Ship-Building) has increased prodigiously,
    and is now carried on to an extent beyond that of any former
    period: but it is submitted to your consideration whether it is not
    accompanied by some disadvantageous circumstances which detract
    vastly from the great value it might be made to produce, and to
    leave in the Province; and for which I have no doubt, you will
    adopt prudent remedies that will render this branch of industry
    more staple, as well as more beneficial.

    Vast sums are sent from this Province, in specie, for the purchase
    of foreign agricultural produce. This enormous burthen operating in
    fact, as a tax raised by foreign industry on our food, contributes
    to raise high above the rate in surrounding Countries, the wages of
    labour here, and to lay the Province under corresponding difficulty
    and disability in every branch of its industry. It comes home to
    us, grievously, in various forms, in every operation of our
    domestic and political economy; and I appeal to your wisdom, to
    your patriotism, to the real interests, and to the public spirit of
    the Country for zealous co-operations in the measures and exertions
    necessary to relieve the Province from this most serious
    difficulty.

    Agricultural, Emigrant, and other Societies should be encouraged to
    extend and exert their influence in every way that can tend to
    promote, improve, circulate and distinguish the modes and means
    most favourable to augment the production of subsistence. By such
    means, too, we may reasonably expect soon to possess a population
    sufficient for the operative parts of all other branches of
    industry; and when these several operations shall all be executed
    by British Subjects and British Colonists, the Province will feel
    and exhibit in her condition the good effects of having closed
    those drains that have long carried off much capital which
    otherwise would have been laid out in the Merchants' stores, in the
    cultivation of the soil, and in other productive enterprizes of
    vast advantage.

    Large sums have been expended on the Great Roads of this Province;
    but their condition shows the inefficiency of the present system,
    in appropriation and execution. This arises, chiefly, from having
    tried too much, and in such attempts dispersing limited means, to
    superficial and endless labor; on works far too numerous and
    costly, to be all substantially improved at the same time. Such
    appropriation, therefore, should be made of the sums which may be
    allotted to the Great Roads as may ensure effectual exertion upon
    them in succession, and in the order of their importance; and at
    the same time preclude those partial and general alterations in the
    lines of Roads, from which vast sums of public money have been
    uselessly expended. The Public Service has been exposed to very
    serious inconvenience by irregularities incident to the present
    line of communication between the Seat of Government and the City
    of Saint John. To remedy this, whatever it may be necessary to do
    in other times and seasons, I earnestly recommend the expediency of
    completing such a communication with Saint John, for a winter
    travelling and Post Road, as may not be subject to those serious
    interruptions and dangers to which the present line must always be
    exposed, during the greater portion of the year.

    Fully impressed with the importance of attending to the efficiency
    of the Militia, I have derived much satisfaction from what I have
    witnessed of their appearance and public spirit. The Militia Law
    will have to pass under your revision, generally, and I recommend
    the amendment of those clauses which press so severely upon the
    Militiamen in regard to the distance of travel to their drill, and
    also with respect to age, at unnecessary cost of time, and
    inconvenience to the people.

    I earnestly recommend to your continued patronage the several
    Institutions for the Education of our Youth; and I may have
    occasion hereafter to recommend measures for giving security and
    encouragement to those Provident Institutions, which I am happy to
    acquaint you have been established in this Province, under very
    promising circumstances, highly advantageous to the Country.

    I have great satisfaction in acquainting you that our Most Gracious
    Sovereign has condescended to patronize the College of
    New-Brunswick with his gracious Favor, and to bestow a Grant from
    His Royal Revenues in this Province, to place that Institution upon
    a very improved establishment; and I rely upon such gradual
    provision being made hereafter, in addition to your last vote, as
    may enable the Governor and Trustees, to proceed in the erection of
    a suitable building. His Majesty's Secretary of State has further
    dispensed the grace and favour of the Crown in a manner that cannot
    fail to be duly and fully appreciated, and to sustain those
    principles of attachment, and loyalty which distinguish the origin
    and course of this Colony.

    In addition to the provision made for the Madras Schools,
    generally, and to that of the African School at St. John, I
    recommend some provision for a similar establishment at the Seat of
    Government, to bring more generally within the influence of these
    excellent Institutions, a portion of the human race to whom we owe
    kindness, charity, and benevolence, and for whom we should provide
    religious, moral and industrious education.

    In the very prosperous condition which the affairs of this Province
    may now permanently take, I perceive, that the period is arrived
    for entertaining enlarged views and scope of system, necessary to
    supersede some very disadvantageous circumstances which should be
    gradually corrected, and to raise the Province to that
    consideration, value and importance, which it will soon assume, if
    the management of its affairs proceed upon sound views and
    estimates of her true situation, and be conducted according to
    fixed and solid general principles. But great misery and
    embarrassment may be inflicted on young and advancing Countries, if
    disturbed by doubts, or exposed to quick transitions arising from
    different schemes of temporizing policy, and I desire to point out
    the errors and dangers of all contingent measures and pursuits made
    only to comply with chance circumstances, temporary interests and
    adventitious excitements.

    To that solid course, then, which may best embrace all of those
    interests of which the public good is made up, and upon which the
    permanency of your prosperity depends, I shall endeavour to look,
    and on it encourage the exertions of the whole Population to push
    their special interests with spirit and enterprize, under the sober
    guidance of general measures calculated to produce a steadiness,
    healthfulness and solidity of progress, which, under Divine
    Blessing, and the powerful and enlightened protection of our Parent
    State, will gradually conduct this happy Province to a very high
    degree of value and prosperity.

At a general meeting of the Members of the Legislature, and other respectable Gentlemen from
all parts of the Province, assembled in one of the Committee Rooms of the House of Assembly
on Thursday the 17th of February, 1825, by request of the LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR, to take into
consideration some propositions to be submitted by his Excellency, relating to the improvement
of Agriculture, &c. in this Province, when His Excellency was pleased to open the proceedings
of the meeting with the following SPEECH:--

    The purpose for which I have caused this meeting to be convened,
    is of the first importance to the Country: And I am delighted to
    find myself surrounded on this occasion, as I hope to be on every
    occasion, by those distinguished Persons, from whose station, stake
    and consideration in the Country, I may expect the most powerful
    aid in promoting the great objects I have in view, if we are all
    fully impressed with the expediency and necessity we are under,
    each in our several stations, of doing all that may depend upon us,
    to accomplish the purposes which I am now to bring more
    particularly under your consideration.

    The purpose for which we are met is, to enquire whether some
    encouragement and excitement may not be applied to Agricultural
    pursuits, to operate, discreetly and gradually, in a manner to
    relieve the country from the great difficulty and disability under
    which it is laid by the vast sums which we pay for our food, and
    from the very disadvantageous effects which this produces on the
    cost of labour, and consequently in all branches of our industry.

    Under ordinary circumstances, the high price occasioned by
    deficiency in the supply of any article in general demand,
    operating as a premium upon increased production, has a direct and
    natural tendency to remedy its own evils. This, in fact, is an
    effect which is working here, though slowly, to cure the malady
    of which we complain; and if other branches of industry were not in
    an excited, forced, and somewhat unnatural condition, it would be
    unnecessary, superfluous, or perhaps disadvantageous, to interfere
    with the sources and currents of supply, which ultimately
    accommodate themselves in the most advantageous and fittest way, to
    meet demand. But these are peculiarities in the circumstances of
    this Country, which must appear very obvious to all persons who
    have correct notions of the extent of her business and dealings,
    compared with the limited Population and Capital we possess, which
    occasioning powerful competitions in other branches, would appear
    to demand some additional encouragement and adventitious aid, to
    draw Labour and Capital in greater quantities, to the cultivation
    of the Soil.

    To consider, properly, the best modes and means by which we may
    augment the production of subsistence, it will be proper to resolve
    the question into the consideration of the elements of production,
    viz. Labour, Capital and Land, and to enquire in what way we can
    give to those constituent parts of production, the facilities and
    encouragement they require, to compete with other branches which
    are obviously under the influence of adventitious excitement.

    With respect to Land, we possess it in abundance, and in quality
    ready to yield what we may in a judicious manner require of it; and
    it will be one of my main objects to endeavour to lay open to
    Agricultural pursuits, extensive tracts which have long been locked
    up in reserved superabundance. This measure has in one case been,
    heretofore, sought and petitioned for; but it was not accorded to,
    at that time, in consequence of doubts entertained by His Majesty's
    Government, as to the value of the standing produce of that Land,
    for other purposes. But it is an advantage arising from a late
    appointment to a high situation in the Province, that powers are
    given, subject to certain conditions and regulations which I may
    sanction, to throw open portions of those reserves to meet the
    improving circumstances of the Country, and this will be speedily
    observed in a way that will open considerable tracts of valuable
    Land to the operations of Agriculture.

    Proceeding, next, to the consideration of Capital, it has appeared
    to me to be very desirable, that some new measures should be taken
    with a view to attract the enterprizes of Capitalists, not only to
    the cultivation of fresh tracts, but likewise to that of the waste
    Lands of the Province generally; and I entertain the intention of
    bringing this proposition under the consideration of the High
    Authorities, elsewhere, upon whom this will depend. But the
    creation and accumulation of small Capitals, sufficient to enable
    the working man to enter with advantage on the cultivation of a
    grant of Land, of the usual extent, is a matter in degree and
    practicability, much within the influence of our own measures, and
    it becomes therefore subject of very fit consideration for this
    meeting, composed of so many distinguished persons, who, returning
    soon to their respective Countries, may give information respecting
    those Institutions which are constituted, and likely I trust to be
    protected, to provide for the safe custody and accumulation of the
    small savings of the industrious classes of Society.

    The greater part of such accumulations may be considered as funds
    rescued from unproductive consumption, to be laid out productively
    in various important branches of industry; and whilst, therefore,
    in this view, the provident Institutions deserve encouragement from
    all classes, they more particularly suggest to the gentlemen acting
    in the different Emigrant and Agricultural Societies, and to the
    employers of Agricultural Labours generally, the co-operation which
    may be expected from Savings' Banks in encouraging, by enabling,
    all industrious persons, soon to enter with advantage on the
    cultivation of the Soil, as proprietors of Land.

    The poor Emigrant, for instance, who comes to the country destitute
    of pecuniary means, and who should always be met and welcomed with
    a great deal of charitable attention and protection, should be
    told, that to enter on the laborious enterprize of clearing a Lot,
    in the wilderness, without Capital, would be to entangle himself in
    very considerable difficulty. The best course which such a person
    can pursue, would be to avail himself of the assistance, which it
    should be a main object of all Emigrant Societies to provide, to
    procure advantageous employment in which to acquire experience of
    the climate, habit of Labour, and best modes of culture; and whilst
    acquiring these, to accumulate his Savings in the Savings' Banks,
    in the manner that any person, who is not burthened with a large
    family, may soon do, in farm service in summer, and in other
    pursuits in winter.

    This object will perhaps be best pursued by the Emigrant Societies
    in the different parts, taking active measures to become acquainted
    with the circumstances and description of Emigrants so soon as they
    arrive, and entering in a Book, their names, age, trade or
    occupation, objects, and the means they may possess of pursuing
    these. From those entries of the circumstances and condition of the
    Individuals, Emigrant Societies would be competent to give them
    counsel and protection. If the Emigrant's desire should be to
    Agricultural pursuits, which will commonly be the case, but that he
    has no Capital to commence with, he should be advised to put
    himself to Farm service, and his attention should be drawn to the
    facilities which Savings' Banks provide for receiving, securing and
    augmenting his savings. If this measure meet concurrence in its
    objects and practicability, it will be received as an appeal to the
    Agriculturists of the Country to keep correspondence with the
    nearest Emigrant Societies, for the purpose of procuring Labourers
    of their recommendation.

    But although it may not be expedient for a person without Capital,
    to enter at once on the cultivation of his tract, yet it appears to
    me that some inducement should be applied to excite his industry by
    a prospect of an advantageous location, so soon as he finds himself
    capable of undertaking it; and in this view I see no difficulty in
    the arrangement, and on the other hand, great public advantage, in
    securing for persons thus working for their capital, locations upon
    the Lots they may prefer, subject to a condition that, within one
    year, the Emigrant Society in whose Books they may be registered,
    report favorably of their proceedings, in a manner to give fair
    expectation that at the end of a further short period, they would
    be able to enter upon their location, and pay a proportion of their
    fees, in aid of which the Society should provide some donation or
    loan.

    But when the Emigrant has pecuniary means, or is resolved to enter
    at once on his Land, the Emigrant Societies will be enabled to let
    him chuse his situation, in the plans of unoccupied Lots reserved
    for Emigrants, which plans will for this purpose be transmitted to
    the Emigrant Societies, and to whose recommendation a quick return
    of location tickets will be made; and I am happy to say that this
    measure will be observed and promoted with much ability and zeal by
    the distinguished persons on whom it will severally depend.

    When we reflect that one of the greatest difficulties under which
    we labour in accomplishing the great purpose of independence with
    respect to our food, arises from the want a working population
    sufficient for the all operative parts of our industry, and
    consequently the very high rate of wages and food, which lays the
    Agriculturist under disadvantages of the most serious description,
    in a climate where the productive powers of the earth are so long
    dormant, we must all concur in the necessity of aiding Societies by
    whose means so many able hands can be procured, and for want of
    properly supporting which, so many have passed to a foreign land.

    An increased competition or supply of labour then will be much
    influenced by arrangements such as I have indicated; whilst in its
    modes, intelligence and material means, it may be greatly promoted
    by Agricultural Societies. These, under the designation of
    Agricultural and Emigrant Societies, I should wish to see formed in
    every County in the Province, and Sub-Societies organized under
    them to carry their benefits to all parts of the Country. I trust,
    indeed, that ere you depart, the foundation, or rather the
    re-organization of such a system will be completed, and I call upon
    the Gentlemen of distinction from the different Counties who are
    now present to concur in this measure, and when they return to
    their respective Counties, to engage to organize such Societies to
    be composed of persons who would be most likely to co-operate in
    this great purpose. I feel confident, that whenever Societies shall
    be so organized in any County, they will meet the provision which I
    trust will be made by the liberality of the Country for their
    support and efficiency: and I perceive with much satisfaction that
    the public spirit of the Country is in many parts exhibiting itself
    in the form, and for the purpose which we contemplate for general
    adoption.

    For the purpose of improving, circulating and distinguishing the
    modes and means most favorable to increased production, and of
    drawing to a focus that information which it may be desirable to
    possess here in the Seat of Government for myself and for you it
    will be proper that some provision should be devised for the
    laborious part of that purpose which will depend upon a Secretary
    who should be appointed to manage the correspondence of the Central
    Committee to report proceedings to the general meeting.

    The general meeting should be composed of all Members of the
    Legislature; of all Presidents and Vice-Presidents of County
    Societies, and of all members subscribers in the regulated amount.
    The Central Committee should be named in the general meeting to
    carry on the correspondence during the recess, and to arrange the
    general Accounts; but the appropriation of Public Funds should be
    made direct to the County Societies and subject only to the audit
    of the Central Committee. These Reports will thus exhibit a general
    statement of the sums expended and whether commensurate progress
    has been made in the improvement of Agricultural implements,
    machinery, modes of culture, augmentation of production, and breed
    of Cattle, all of which should be under the influence of these
    meetings.

    With views such as these, so soon as I discovered, in studying your
    affairs, the disabilities and difficulties which the Province might
    have to contend with from deficiency in the supply of food, and
    aware that it would require pecuniary means, on my part, to put
    into activity the plans which I then formed, and now lay before
    you, I submitted to His Majesty's Secretary of State the importance
    of sanctioning a small grant from the funds at the disposal of the
    Crown, to meet the liberality and public spirit with which I am
    persuaded, elsewhere and every where, the great object now under
    our consideration will be supported. I have great satisfaction in
    showing how readily this has been dispensed: I will read the terms
    of it, and hasten to say that the use I shall make of it, will be,
    to place a sum, which I hope will be annual, at the disposal of
    those County Societies that are or may be organized to meet the
    views which I here lay before you.

    In communicating this grant from His Majesty's Revenue to the
    Agricultural Societies, it is however my duty to state, that the
    continuation of this grant for future years, will depend upon the
    report which I may have in my power to make of the advantages which
    it may have produced; and these will mainly depend upon the
    liberality and zeal with which this Provision is seconded in the
    Country generally.

The Society having been formed and organized, the President communicated to the Meeting that
he had received a Message from His Excellency the LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR, that it was his intention
to attend the Meeting in person, to communicate his sentiments on their proceedings, and his
acceptance of the office of Patron.

Whereupon His Excellency entered and having taken the Chair, addressed the Society as follow:--

    Mr. President, Vice-Presidents, and Gentlemen
          of the Agricultural and Emigrant Society,

    I evince the satisfaction and cordiality with which I receive your
    Address by placing myself in this Chair, as your Patron, on the
    very instant the distinguished Seat is offered to me; and the first
    sentence I shall deliver from it is, to assure you that my most
    zealous exertions shall be used to promote the great objects we
    have in view, in every way that may depend upon me.

    I am gratified for the present, sanguine and confident for the
    future, when I look around me and perceive the distinguished
    persons of whom this Society is composed, and the interest which it
    has excited; and it is particularly pleasing to me to find myself
    supported by the distinguished person whom you have placed in the
    President's Chair. I congratulate you, Gentlemen, upon such an
    election, and myself on having such coadjutures.

    The Agricultural and Emigrant Societies being now about to go into
    immediate, and, as I hope successful operation, it may not be
    useless to express to you, and through you to convey to the Public,
    some appeals to those exertions which will be required to realize
    the benefits which we here contemplate, and for attaining which,
    the course is now so clear.

    This fine, and as I have hitherto found it, happy Province, is
    advancing rapidly, with growth almost exuberant, to a station, the
    real intrinsic character and condition of which, in other times,
    will depend mainly upon the manner in which we who are now
    directing its affairs, in certainly a critical period of its
    advancement, when it is daily developing its resources, and forming
    its system, may discharge our several duties, by doing all that may
    depend upon us to train, sustain and correct the principles, habits
    and pursuits, and to regulate the exertions, by which,
    unquestionably, it may be conducted to a state of great prosperity.

    To consider these duties with reference to all the obligations we
    owe to the Country, in the several branches which contribute to its
    most political and statistical progress, would lead us away far
    beyond the sphere of our present purpose; I shall, therefore, only
    consider the duties we have to fulfil in regard to the Institutions
    now completely organized. The several purposes contemplated by
    those Institutions call upon us to promote habits of frugality,
    domestic economy, and useful industry, as training a rural
    population to settle and labour on the soil, and to assist them so
    to exert themselves in the modes and means of culture as to improve
    our Agricultural condition; to make us more independent at least
    for our food; and subsequently to set free other branches of
    industry, which are now under great disability. The foundation of
    systems which may produce such benefits has now been laid. I have
    had much satisfaction in recommending and promoting them. My views
    have been cordially and ably seconded every where; the measures
    they called for have now been adopted; and they have been liberally
    endowed by the Legislature with pecuniary means to animate and
    quicken the system. The Savings' Bank Bill; the organization and
    endowment of the Body I now address, open, to the industrious
    classes of Society, and to the interests of the Country generally,
    a distinct view of the progress that may be made from foundations
    laid, first, in habits of frugality and domestic economy, onwards,
    through moral and provident conduct, to security and accommodation,
    productive application, improvement in Agriculture, increase of
    population, competition in labour, encouragement and development of
    industry, and augmented production. The Acts and the system of this
    Session have laid the foundation of much improvement to the
    country, on solid grounds; and seeds which should blossom
    hereafter, are planted in the fertile soil; but whether the
    superstructure is to be raised, or them seeds are to spring,
    depends not on those who have laboured on the foundation, or who
    have provided the means that may quicken the process. Whether the
    Savings' Bank Bill, or this most admirable Institution are to be
    effectual in doing good, depends upon the degree of Public Spirit
    with which our exertions here, may be supported and extended in the
    Country generally. All Public Institutions live only by Public
    Spirit, in any Country; but this is particularly the case in young
    Countries where man owes to fellow man a greater contribution of
    his concern and of his aid. Look at the progress of an individual
    case. When a Settler goes, singly, to encounter the difficulties
    and the labour of a solitary Location in an unsettled District, and
    with the sweat of his own brow to shelter his family, and to clear
    space to receive the seeds which are to yield his immediate
    subsistence, we all know what fortitude, power and time are
    required to accomplish such beginnings. But should he undertake his
    enterprize on a site near to where former Settlers have experienced
    such difficulties, the recent sense brings to his aid the little
    community, to labour for him; and by the exertions of that Public
    he is speedily established in a way, that he might never have
    accomplished by his own solitary powers. This is Public Spirit.
    So may it be with the Edifices we are now raising! They are, in
    some respects, partially, and in others wholly, new Settlers, in
    this Country; and they are well deserving of public exertion to
    complete the useful fabric. We are here entirely dependent upon
    public spirit.--What can these systems do without it? They would
    languish from this day, and might expire even in their cradle. This
    I do trust will never happen. I know not how long I may be the
    witness of their progress; but sure I am that the intensity of
    interest which I feel in this Province, and which I have imbibed
    paternally, for the success of these Institutions which I have been
    instrumental in bringing forward, will always be felt with such
    solicitude as shall give me pleasure in their success; but which
    from that very interest, will suggest reproach, if (which cannot
    be) they should fail from want of public exertion. But remember
    that time, labour in arrangement and management, must be
    contributed gratuitously, for the Chief offices of these
    Institutions. I am confident that those sacrifices will be
    cheerfully tendered by the public spirit of the Country in a way
    that shall produce advantage to it, and reflect everlasting credit,
    honor and substantial enjoyment upon the patriotic persons who may
    offer their aid.--It cannot fail to do so; for the man who feels
    the real impulses of public spirit is usually the happiest, because
    he is the best of Beings. Public spirit contains in it every
    laudable passion, and every fine affection.--It comprehends our
    duties towards our parents, to our kindred, to our friends, to our
    neighbours, to our fellow man in every degree, and to every thing
    dear to mankind in the public Institutions formed of them. Public
    spirit is the highest of virtues, and affords the highest degree of
    satisfaction. Steadfast in good purpose; fidelity in trust;
    impartial to all; a passion to promote universal good, with
    personal labour, pains, and the sacrifice of every selfish feeling;
    to endeavour to maintain Society in peace, tranquillity, plenty and
    security. It is, in short, as I feel it, one man's care for the
    many: and, as you I am persuaded feel it, the concern of every man
    for the good of all. This sentiment binds us together in the
    pursuit of public advantage to a co-operation from which I am
    convinced none will shrink in any difficulty which these
    Institutions may have to encounter; and onward let us go with a
    determination that when we meet again in this place, we may
    receive, and record, reports which shall prove that our schemes
    have prospered.

    I have now the pleasure to announce that from the Funds which His
    Majesty's Secretary of State has put at my disposal from the King's
    Casual Revenue, I shall appropriate £25 to each of the County
    Societies for the present year subject to the regulations and
    conditions already established; and I will not fail to intercede
    for a continuance of this Royal Bounty, if I can report success in
    our labours.

APPENDIX No. II.

Extracts relating to the early transactions in Nova-Scotia and New-Brunswick, copied verbatim
from papers compiled by a gentlemen who intended to publish an account of New-Brunswick; but
was from unexpected circumstances obliged to relinquish the design.

    PROVINCE OF THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY.

    Notice is hereby given, that it hath been determined that a
    squadron of His Majesty's ships and divers regiments of foot should
    winter in Nova-Scotia, which will require large supplies of fresh
    provisions to be sent thither from time to time, not only for the
    support of the sick in the hospitals, but for the refreshment of
    those that are well,--and that His Excellency Governor Lawrence
    hath given assurance, that the coasters and others trading in
    refreshments of that sort, shall not only be protected by the
    Admiral from pressing, but shall receive, both from His Excellency
    and the Admiral, all manner of countenance and regard.

                                                      A. OLIVER, Sec.

    Province of the Massachusetts Bay.      Boston, October 31, 1758.

    The following proclamation being published in Nova-Scotia and
    transmitted to this government, was read in Council, and ordered to
    be published in this Province.

                                                 THOS. CLARK, D. Sec.

    By His Excellency Charles Lawrence, Captain-General and
    Commander-in-Chief in and over His Majesty's Province of
    Nova-Scotia, or Acadia, in America, Vice-Admiral of the same, &c.,
    &c., &c.

    A PROCLAMATION.

    Whereas by the late success of His Majesty's arms in the reduction
    of Cape Breton and its dependencies, and also by the demolition and
    entire destruction of Gaspe, Miramichi, and of Saint Lawrence, and
    on Saint John's river in the Bay of Fundy, the enemy, who have
    formerly disturbed and harassed the Province of Nova-Scotia, and
    much obstructed its progress, have been compelled to retire and
    take refuge in Canada; a favorable opportunity now presents itself
    for the peopling and cultivating, as well the lands vacated by the
    French, as every other part of that valuable Province:

    I have therefore thought fit, with the advice of His Majesty's
    Council, to issue this proclamation, declaring that I shall be
    ready to receive any proposals that may hereafter be made to me,
    for effectually settling the said vacated, or any other lands
    within the Province aforesaid: a description whereof, and of the
    advantages arising from their peculiar nature and situation, I have
    ordered to be published with this proclamation.

        Given in the Council Chamber at Halifax, this 12th day of
        October, 1758, and in the thirty-second year of His Majesty's
        Reign.

    By His Excellency's command,       }
      with the advice of His Majesty's }            CHARLES LAWRENCE.
      Council                          }

    GOD SAVE THE KING!

A description of the lands ordered to be published pursuant to the foregoing proclamation,
which consist of more than one hundred thousand acres of land, interval and plow lands, producing
wheat, rye, barley, oats, hemp, flax, &c. These have been cultivated for more than a hundred
years past, and never fail of crops, nor need manuring.

Also, more than one hundred thousand acres of upland, cleared and stocked with English grass,
planted with orchards, gardens, &c. These lands, with good husbandry, produce often two loads
of hay per acre. The wild and unimproved lands adjoining abound with black birch, ash, oak,
pine, fir, &c.

All these lands are so intermixed that every single farmer may have a proportionable quantity
of plow land, grass land, and wood land, and are all situated about the Bay of Fundy, upon
rivers navigable for ships of burden.

Proposals will be received by Mr. Hancock of Boston, and by Messrs. Delancie & Watts of New-York,
to be transmitted to the Governor, or President of the Council at Halifax.

(Copy.)

    His Majesty's confirmation of the plan for settling the Province of
    Nova-Scotia.

    At the Court of St. James's, the 16th day of February, 1760,

    (Seal)         (Present)

        The King's Most Excellent Majesty,
    Lord Keeper,         Earl Gower,
    Lord President,      Viscount Barrington,
    Lord Steward,        Lord Deleware,
    Earl of Hyndford,    Mr. Vice Chamberlain.

    Whereas there was this day read to the Board, a representation from
    the Lords Commissioners of Trade and Plantations, dated the 30th of
    December last, containing an account of the proceedings of the
    Governor in Council of Nova-Scotia, with regard to the settling of
    the lands evacuated by the removal of the French inhabitants from
    that Province, as well as other tracts of land in the wild and
    uncleared part of that country, and also with regard to the terms
    and conditions upon which the said Governor and Council have agreed
    to make grants of the said lands: and the said Lords Commissioners
    being of opinion, that the plan so laid down by the said Governor
    and Council, will be a means of the speedy settling the vacant
    lands in that Province, and therefore proper to receive His
    Majesty's approbation: His Majesty has this day took the said
    representation into consideration, and is hereby pleased, with the
    advice of his Privy Council, to declare his royal approbation of
    the said plan of the said Governor and Council, for the speedy
    settling the vacant lands in that Province: and also of the terms
    and conditions agreed upon for that purpose, and doth therefore
    order that the Governor or Commander-in-Chief of his Province of
    Nova-Scotia for the time being, do carry the same into execution.

    (Signed)                                               W. SHARPE.

    Extract of a Letter from His Excellency Governor Lawrence, to the
    Agent for the Province of Nova-Scotia, at Boston, dated 24th June,
    1760.

    "I am ready to receive farther proposals, in consequence of His
    Majesty's approbation of our measures, from any person or persons
    who will offer themselves to become settlers in this Province; and
    that all due encouragement shall be given them to the utmost limits
    of the authority with which His Majesty has been pleased to invest
    the Governor and Council of this Province.--Nota Bene. Proposals
    left with Mr. Hancock, will be transmitted to the Governor at
    Halifax.

    "Captain Bragdon informs us, that Captain Fisher in a sloop from
    Annapolis Royal, bound to Fort Cumberland, was cast away in the Bay
    of Fundy, on board of which was Lieutenant Tonge, an Engineer, with
    a considerable sum of money, which was lost, together with the
    lives of two or three persons on board. Friday last arrived here
    the Province ship King George, Captain Hallowell, from Louisburg
    and a cruize. From Louisburg, we learn that the armed vessels
    lately sent out thence, had been at Pictou, and burnt five or six
    vessels which the enemy took from us last year, and brought off
    some plunder; and that the Indians from Saint John, who brought the
    account of the five French men of war being in the Bay of Chaleur,
    also informed that they had landed four hundred men, in order to
    attack Fort Cumberland.

    "Arrived here, Colonel Arthithnot, who commanded at Fort Frederick,
    in Saint John's River, the year past; also several other officers
    and a number of soldiers belonging to this Province, who have
    garrisoned His Majesty's forts up the Bay of Fundy, and now
    discharged, arrived here, being relieved by a number of soldiers
    lately enlisted in this Province, for that service. We hear that
    the Indians behave well, and still continue to come into the forts
    at Nova-Scotia, and carry on trade very peaceably."

Extract of a Letter from Colonel Fry, to His Excellency the Governor, dated Fort Cumberland,
Chignecto, March 7, 1760.

    SIR.--I informed your Excellency in my last of 10th December, of
    the submission of the French peasants residing at Miramichi,
    Richibucto, Bucktouche, Peticodiac, and Memramcook, made by their
    deputies sent here for that purpose. On the 30th of January last,
    Mr. Manack, a French Priest, who has had the charge of the people
    at Miramichi, Richibucto, and Bucktouche, and a number of the
    principal men of those places, arrived here, when they received
    their submission in a formal manner, by subscribing to articles,
    (drawn suitable to the case,) whereby among other things, they have
    obliged themselves and people they represent, to come to Bay Verte
    with all their effects and shipping as early in the spring as
    possible, in order to be disposed of as Governor Lawrence shall
    direct. With the French Priest, came two Indian Chiefs, Paul
    Lawrence and Augustin Michael; Lawrence tells me he was a prisoner
    in Boston, and lived with Mr. Henshaw, a blacksmith; he is Chief of
    a tribe at Richibucto. I have received their submissions, for
    themselves and for their tribes, to His Britannic Majesty, and sent
    them to Halifax for the terms by Governor Lawrence. I have likewise
    received the submission of two other Chiefs, who I dealt with as
    before mentioned, and was in hopes I had no more treaties to make
    with savages; but he told me I was mistaken for there would be a
    great many more upon the same business, as soon as their spring
    hunting was over: and upon my enquiring how many, he gave a list of
    fourteen Chiefs, including those already mentioned, (copy of which
    I have inclosed) most of which he said would come. I was surprised
    to hear of such a number of Indian Chiefs in this part of America,
    and Mr. Manack further told me that they were all of one nation,
    and known by the name of Mickmacks; that they were very numerous,
    amounting to near three thousand souls; that he had learned their
    language since he had been among them, and found so much excellence
    in it, that he was well persuaded if the beauties of it were known
    in Europe, there would be seminaries erected for the propagation of
    it. How that might be, is better known to him than to those who
    know nothing of the language; but I think I may venture to say,
    that if there be so many of these Indians, as he says there are, I
    know this Province, as it abounds very plentifully with furs, may
    reap a vast advantage by them, provided Canada returns not into the
    hands of the French.

    About the time that Mr. Manack arrived here, there came in eight
    men, one of whom was a New-England man, one Irishman, and the rest
    Italians and Spaniards; who informed me they deserted from a French
    frigate that lay froze in at the head of Gaspe harbour. The two
    former belonged to a vessel commanded by Captain Malcom, of Boston,
    who was taken by the above frigate, as she was returning from
    Quebec, where she had been on a trading voyage.

    Names of the Indian Chiefs inhabiting the coast of Acadia:

    Louis Frances, Chief of Miramichi,
    Denis Winemowet, do. Tabogimkik,
    Etienne Abchabo, do. Pohomoosh,
    Claud Atanaze, do. Gediack,
    Paul Lawrence, do. La Have,
    Joseph Algimoure, do. Chignectou,
    John Newit, do. Pictou,
    Baptist La Morue, do. Isle of St. John's,
    Reni, do. Nalkitgoniash,
    Jeannot Piguidawelwet, do. Keshpugowitk,
    Batelemy Aungualett, do. Minas,
    Augustin Michael, do. Richibucto. This gave
no small alarm to a few men in the heart of an Indian Country, most of
whom had never beheld a wild Indian, but had all their lives heard of
their savage cruelties and murders. This answer did not appear fully to satisfy the
Indians, yet they made no reply. The militia called out; public offices shut, and
nothing to be seen but bustle and preparation for the defence of the
town, that being the situation of Government, the agents and surveyors,
for the adventurers were obliged to return without giving any account
of their proceedings, or obtaining any confirmation of their former
order for surveying a township, or any instructions to govern their
conduct in carrying on the intended settlements. This disappointment
was, in the autumn of the same year, followed by one still greater.
Commissioners were sent to Fort Frederick, to inform the former
applicants for grants of lands, that the space they had surveyed would
not be granted to them. On receiving this distressing information they
sent a petition to the King, stating the expence they had been at, in
full confidence, that all the promises and encouragements, they had
received from Government, would be confirmed. This petition was sent
under cover addressed to the then agent for the Province, most
earnestly soliciting his influence in obtaining a speedy answer for
their petition. He took a lively interest in their cause, and in a
short time, obtained an order to the Governor to grant all such shares
in the tract they had laid out, as should from time to time be settled;
and the same gentleman advanced a considerable sum for the proprietors,
to defray the expence of obtaining such order, and the proprietors, as
a mark of their gratitude, and esteem of their patron, gave their town
his name, with a small addition to it, and grants were made to all the
resident proprietors, in or about the year 1765. The Indians had
remained peaceable from 1762 to 1765: in this year they assembled
together, and gave threats of immediately commencing a new war against
the English; and the inhabitants of all the frontiers of the Province
were greatly alarmed, and the commander of Fort Frederick doubled his
sentries on the occasion. The pretexts of the Indians were well known
to be mostly false and frivolous, and the commandant and inhabitants
residing near the garrison, took great pains to persuade the Chiefs to
lay their complaints before the Governor, at Halifax, before they
engaged in a war that would eventually prove ruinous to themselves,
which might be prevented by their stating to Government all the grounds
of the injuries they complained of: after little consideration they
agreed to the proposal, and soon after set out for Halifax, accompanied
by one of the inhabitants. Their business on their first arrival, was,
without loss of time, made known to the Governor, who appointed a time
and place to give the Chiefs a hearing of their complaints. They on
examination, could not in any degree, support their heaviest charges,
and in the end, they admitted they had been misinformed. So that the
result of their complaints, amounted to nothing more than that the
inhabitants had frequently killed some Beavers, Moose, and other
animals, but not far from their houses, which the Chiefs alleged was
their exclusive property; and that it was of the condition of a former
treaty that the English settlers should not be allowed to kill any wild
game in any part of the wilderness, beyond the limits of their farms
and improvements. The Governor informed them in his answer, that all
treaties before that time, should be strictly observed, and that if the
inhabitants had in any instance, done anything contrary to such
treaties, they should be severely reprimanded and restrained from
continuing such practices. The Chiefs replied, that it might be out of
their power to pacify their young men, unless the damage before done to
them should be paid. This brought on an inquiry of the Chiefs, what the
alleged damage amounted to. In their answer they highly overrated as
the inhabitants made it clearly appear, from their statement of the
number of animals that had been killed. The Chiefs finding themselves
detected in having alarmed the country without reason and of having
thereby put them in distressing fear and to great expence, appeared
ashamed of their conduct, and could only repeat that the Indians of
their tribe would insist on being paid the damages for the loss of
their wild animals. They promised to do either one or the
other; for which purpose Government gave them large presents in
necessary supplies for their families. They were at the same time,
equally solicited by the Americans; and as large or larger presents
made by them; and they continued to live mostly at the expence of the
two parties during that war. In 1779 the Indians again assembled, and
threatened to make war against the English; and went down in as great a
body as they could collect, to near Fort Howe, where they were met by a
messenger from the Commandant, and a Deputy Agent for Indian affairs,
who appeased the Indians, with a promise of presents (commonly so
called), which they accepted and the purchase of a continuance of
peace; and they returned to their head-quarters at Opage. This was the
last threat of an Indian war.

    NOTES.--Notwithstanding all the obstacles and discouragements
    before noticed, the number of families at the river Saint John,
    including a few settlers on the Islands in Passamaquoddy Bay,
    amounted to between one hundred and one hundred and fifty families
    prior to the year 1783.

    MEMO.--The French Priest who had been forty years employed by
    France, as a Missionary to the Indians, was ordered to leave the
    province in 1763, being suspected of influencing and instructing
    the Indians to make extravagant demands on Government as
    commissions of their remaining peaceable, at the same time all the
    French families, then in scattered settlements on the north side of
    the bay were ordered to leave the Province. They all obeyed the
    mandate: but in a few years, many returned, one after another, and
    became quiet subjects.

REMARKS.

On the state of that part of ancient Nova-Scotia lying north of the Bay of Fundy, now in the
Province of New-Brunswick, prior to the year 1754.

The French Government in defiance of former treaties continued to erect forts around the harbour
of Saint John, and to send troops for the defence of this part of the country (considering
it theirs) and to employ the natives to harass and murder the settlers in the district of Maine,
thus for many years preventing the settlement of that part of the British dominions as far
west as that district or province extended; and the French more recently built a Fort and named
it Beau-Sejour, at the head of the bay: from which place they supplied with arms, &c. the tribes
of Indians who inhabited the coasts on the Gulph of Saint Lawrence and the rivers that fall
into the same. The Indians were also employed to check and prevent the settlements of the Country
called Minas, Cobequis and other parts of the Province on the Peninsula of Acadia or Halifax.
To prevent the continuance of such depredations, the British Government sent an expedition
in 1754, to take possession of this fort, which was not obtained till after an obstinate resistance
from the French, who for some years after it was reduced, continued to fortify their settlements
on the banks of the river St. John, at Passamaquoddy, and to employ the natives in the service,
to prevent the English from extending their settlements eastward of the river Kennebeck and
the inhabitants were continually harassed, and often murdered by savages frequently sent by
the French for that purpose at Kennebeck and many miles westward for a long course of time.
In the year 1758, an expedition was sent from Halifax or Boston to reduce the only remaining
French forts of any considerable strength, north of the Bay of Fundy; situated on the west
side of the river, below the falls, within the present limits of the city Saint John. But the
French commander, having received notice of this expedition some time before its arrival, removed
all the light stores further up the river, sunk all his heavy guns as reported by Frenchmen
who were present and demolished the fort. He first made his retreat only about four leagues
above the falls, where he had previously erected works, surrounded by a thick wood, in order
to be covered by Indian soldiers, who will never fight on open ground, nor suffer themselves
to be driven within the walls of a garrison by a beseiging force. The French soon after retired
to Saint Anns, and not long afterwards to Canada. The demolished fort was rebuilt on the ground
of the old one, and garrisoned the winter following, by a body of provincial troops, and a
company of Rangers, sent from Louisburgh.

The same company of Rangers as a scouting party, in March 1759, marched up the river on the
ice as far as Saint Anns. The few inhabitants below that village had either fled before this
party appeared, to St. Anns, or into the woods, and no prisoner was taken to give information
concerning the situation or strength of the enemy, yet they continued a forced march as far
up as Saint Anns, where they found the village deserted. They set fire to every building in
it, and returned with great precipitation to the Fort Frederick, expecting to be pursued by
the enemy. This company was early this spring ordered to join the expedition against Quebeck,
the Fort was garrisoned with a company or more of provincials till the next or second year:
when they were relieved by a company of one of the highland Regiments. The Fort afterwards
continued to be garrisoned by a company of some British Regiments, under different Commandants
until 1770, when the British troops were embarked from every post in the Province, on account
of some disorders that had recently been committed in Boston: the Barracks and Stores were
by order of Government placed under the care of one of the inhabitants residing near the several
Forts, specially authorized by Government for that service. In 1774, a corporal and six privates
were sent to reside in the Barracks of Fort Frederick. Early next spring an armed brig from
Machias entered the harbour after having taken a vessel from the West-Indies, belonging to
Portland, which they immediately sent to Boston. The two armed vessels continued more than
a week in the harbour and sent an officer with a boat full of men to Maugerville: They did
no material injury to the settlers. In 1776 and 1777 large parties of armed men came into the
river Saint John, in whale boats from Machias and passed through the falls in their boats,
and took possession of several empty buildings on the west shore of the river against the present
settlements called the Indian House, and occupied them for Barracks, whence they came over
every day to Portland shore, and marched along the tongue of land, between the harbour and
the water above the falls; in order to capture any vessels that might enter the river and to
prevent the landing of marines, or seamen from any British ship. In 1777, the Vulture sloop
of war, was stationed in the Bay, between Annapolis and Saint John for the protection of these
places, and to prevent the enemy from venturing further up the Bay to plunder the Towns of
Horton, Cornwallis and other settlements at the water side in different places, but it was
soon found that these towns could not be secured from depredations, as the enemy would pass
by all large ships of war in the night and in fogs.

Early in the summer of 1777 the Vulture came into the harbour of Saint John while the Machias
party were at their Head-Quarters, above the falls.

SOME NOTES REGARDING

PETER FISHER

THE FIRST HISTORIAN OF NEW-BRUNSWICK.

BY REV. W. O. RAYMOND, LL.D.

Peter Fisher's claim to be the first of our historians rests upon two little books, both printed
by a well known publishing firm in Market Square, in the City of St. John, in the early years
of the last century. The first of these books appeared in 1825. It comprises 110 pages, written
in excellent literary style and, considering Mr. Fisher's limited sources of information, is
remarkably accurate.

The other book, "Notitia of New-Brunswick," comprises 136 pages, and was printed in 1838. In
the advertisement at the beginning, the author states that "circumstances have compelled him
to relinquish in part his original plan, and to contract the scope of the publication, since
the times do not warrant any great outlay on works of this description."

The two books are really pamphlets in yellow paper covers, and are now so rare as to be much
sought for by collectors of "Canadiana." Both books are written under the nom de plume of "An
Inhabitant," and the motto that follows is the same in each, namely:--

"Whatever concerns my country, interests me; I follow nature, with truth my guide."

Before proceeding to consider the personality of our first historian and to speak further of
his writings, it will be of interest to speak of his antecedents. His father, Lewis Fisher,
served in the war of the American Revolution, on the side of the crown, in the New Jersey Volunteers,
a brigade commanded by Brigadier General Cortlandt Skinner, the last Royal Attorney-General
of New Jersey. The corps was sometimes known as "Skinner's Greens." It was numerically the
largest organization of British Americans in Howe's army. Officers and men were mostly natives
of New Jersey, New-York and Pennsylvania. One of the original six battalions was commanded
by Lieutenant-Colonel Abraham Van Buskirk and it contained a large Dutch element. Among the
officers were Major Van Cortlandt, Captains William Van Allen, Peter Ruttan, Samuel Ryerson,
Jacob Van Buskirk and Waldron Blaan; Lieutenants Martin Ryerson, John Van Norden, John Heslop,
John Simonson and Joost (or Justus) Earle; Ensigns Colin McVean, Xenophon Jouett, Malcolm Wilmot,
William Sorrell and Frederick Handroff.

Among the men in the ranks--many of whom came to New Brunswick and settled near Fredericton--we
find such names as VanHorne, Vanderbeck, Ackerman, Fisher, Burkstaff, Swim, Ridner, VanWoert,
Woolley, etc. By the settlement of so many men of this corps in New-Brunswick, the same thrifty
"Knickerbocker" element that figured in the development of New-York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania
was planted in this province.

Lewis Fisher joined the New Jersey Volunteers on December 7, 1776. He was taken prisoner a
few weeks later, together with his brother Peter and fifteen others. After an absence of a
year and nine months he effected his escape and returned to his duty on October 2, 1778. He
was thenceforth stationed chiefly at Staten Island, where his three oldest children--Eliza,
Henry and Peter--were born. When the war closed the New Jersey Volunteers were quartered at
Newtown, three miles east of Brooklyn, on Long Island, N.Y.

In the earlier muster rolls we find Fisher's name entered as Lodewick Fischer, but later he
adopted the English form Lewis Fisher. His wife, Mary, was probably of English parentage. She
was the mother of a very large family and a woman of resolute spirit, which she transmitted
to her descendants.

The New Jersey Volunteers never numbered more than 1,500, of all ranks. They, however, rendered
essential service in New Jersey and in the defence of Staten Island. One of the battalions
under Lieut.-Col. Isaac Allen, was conspicuous for its gallantry in the campaigns in Georgia
and South Carolina. At the close of the war the original six battalions had been consolidated
into three, under command of Lieut.-Col. Stephen deLancey, Lieut.-Col. Isaac Allen and Lieut.-Col.
Abraham VanBuskirk.

The war may be said to have ended with the surrender of the army under Lord Cornwallis, at
Yorktown, on October 19, 1781, and little attempt at recruiting was made subsequently; consequently
the regiments continued to dwindle until, at the evacuation of New-York, two years later, they
were not more than one-third of their original strength. The New Jersey Volunteers, a year
after their arrival in New-Brunswick, were mustered by Thomas Knox, under the supervision of
Col. Edward Winslow. The return is dated at Fort Howe, September 25, 1784, and the number of
those then on their lands, and for whom the Royal bounty of provisions was furnished, was as
follows:--

                           Men    Women     Children   Servants  Total
                                        Over 10  Under 10
1st New Jersey Vols.       158      57      57      39       9     320
2nd     "      "           132      45      44      38      14     273
3rd     "      "           173      64      47      42       6     332
                           ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---
Total                      463     166     148     119      29     925

The commander of the 3rd Battalion, Lieut.-Col. VanBuskirk, did not come with his men to the
River St. John but settled in Shelburne, where he was the first mayor of the town. The troops
for St. John sailed in charge of Lieut.-Col. Richard Hewlett as senior officer, with Lieut.-Col.
Gabriel DeVeber second in command. They left New-York on September 15, 1783, and arrived safely
in St. John harbour on the 26th, with the exception of the transports "Martha" and "Esther."
The former was wrecked near Yarmouth and more than half of her passengers were lost. The "Esther,"
in which VanBuskirk's battalion had embarked, got off her course in the fog and narrowly escaped
destruction, arriving a day or two behind her sister ships.

As Peter Fisher was born on Staten Island, on June 9, 1782, he was a very young Loyalist indeed
at the time of his arrival in Blue-nose Land, being, in point of fact, less than sixteen months
old.

Sir Guy Carleton's orders were that the several corps should proceed at once to the places
allotted for their settlement, directions having been given to Captain John Colville, assistant
agent of all small craft at the St. John River, to afford every assistance in his power to
the corps in getting to their destinations. Three days after their arrival the troops disembarked
and encamped above the Falls, near the Indian House. Hewlett wrote Sir Guy Carleton that he
feared the want of small craft would greatly delay their progress. He writes again on the 13th
October, 1783, that the troops had been disbanded and were getting up the river as fast as
the scarcity of small craft for conveying them would admit.

I shall pause here to relate an incident, which will indicate the source from which Peter Fisher
derived the information he gives us concerning the arrival of the Loyalists at St. Ann's and
their subsequent hardships.

About twenty-five years ago William, the youngest son of Peter Fisher, read to me in his apartments
in the old Park Hotel, in St. John, a manuscript which contained the recollections of one of
his sisters of her various conversations with her old grandmother, Mary Fisher, concerning
the coming to New-Brunswick and the subsequent experience of her family at St. Ann's. Mr. Fisher
did not entrust the manuscript to my hands but allowed me to make full notes, and afterwards
at my request re-read the whole, in order that I might make sure of my facts. The story which
now follows is, of course, not quoted from the lips of the first narrator, but is based upon
the notes made by her granddaughter in which are embodied the recollections of the conversations
she had with her grandmother.

    THE GRANDMOTHER'S STORY.

    We sailed from New-York in the ship "Esther" with the fleet for
    Nova-Scotia. Some of our ships were bound for Halifax, some for
    Shelburne and Rome for St. John's river. Our ship going the wrong
    track was nearly lost. When we got to St. John we found the place
    all in confusion; some were living in log houses, some building
    huts, and many of the soldiers living in their tents at the Lower
    Cove. Soon after we landed we joined a party bound up the river in
    a schooner to St. Ann's. It was eight days before we got to
    Oromocto. There the Captain put us ashore being unwilling on
    account of the lateness of the season, or for some other reason, to
    go further. He charged us each four dollars for the passage. We
    spent the night on shore and the next day the women and children
    proceeded in Indian canoes to St. Ann's with some of the party; the
    rest came on foot.

    We reached our destination on the 8th day of October, tired out
    with our long journey, and pitched our tents at the place now
    called Salamanca, near the shore. The next day we explored for a
    place to encamp, for the winter was near and we had no time to lose.

    The season was wet and cold, and we were much discouraged at the
    gloomy prospect before us. Those who had arrived a little earlier
    had made better preparations for the winter; some had built small
    log huts. This we could not do because of the lateness of our
    arrival. Snow fell on the 2nd day of November to the depth of six
    inches. We pitched our tents in the shelter of the woods and tried
    to cover them with spruce boughs. We used stones for fireplaces.
    Our tent had no floor but the ground. The winter was very cold,
    with deep snow, which we tried to keep from drifting in by putting
    a large rug at the door. The snow, which lay six feet around us,
    helped greatly in keeping out the cold. How we lived through that
    awful winter I hardly know. There were mothers, that had been
    reared in a pleasant country enjoying all the comforts of life,
    with helpless children in their arms. They clasped their infants to
    their bosoms and tried by the warmth of their own bodies to protect
    them from the bitter cold. Sometimes a part of the family had to
    remain up during the night to keep the fires burning, so as to keep
    the rest from freezing. Some destitute people made use of boards,
    which the older ones kept heating before the fire and applied by
    turns to the smaller children to keep them warm.

    Many women and children, and some of the men, died from cold and
    exposure. Graves were dug with axes and shovels near the spot where
    our party had landed, and there in stormy winter weather our loved
    ones were buried. We had no minister, so we had to bury them
    without any religious service, besides our own prayers. The first
    burial ground continued to be used for some years until it was
    nearly filled. We called it "The Loyalist Provincials Burial
    Ground."

The site of this old grave-yard, is on the Ketchum place at Salamanca, just below Fredericton,
near the shore. Some rude headstones may perhaps yet be found there. The late Adolphus G. Beckwith
told me that he remembered when a boy to have seen a number of pine "head-boards," much decayed,
but still standing in this old cemetery. The painted epitaphs, or inscriptions, were in some
cases fairly well preserved. He remembered, he said, that many of the names seemed to be German
(or Dutch), a statement which I hardly credited at the time, but which is entirely in harmony
with the old grandmother's story. Continuing her narrative, she says:

    Among those who came with us to St. Ann's, or who were there when
    we arrived were Messrs. Swim, Burkstaff, McComesky, three named
    Ridner, Wooley, Bass, Paine, Ryerse, Acker, Lownsberry, Ingraham,
    Buchanan, Ackerman, Donley, Vanderbeck, Smith, Essington and some
    few others.

Here again the grandmother's story is confirmed by the Muster Rolls of the New Jersey Volunteers,
lately placed by our Historical Society in the Dominion Archives at Ottawa for safe-keeping.
Nearly all the names she mentions are to be found there. In Captain Waldron Blaan's Company,
we find John Swim, Vincent Swim, Moses McComesky, David Burkstaff, Frederick Burkstaff. In
Col. VanBuskirk's Company we find Abraham Vanderbeck, Conrad Ridner, Abraham Ackerman, Morris
Ackerman and Marmaduke Ackerman. In Captain Edward Earle's Company, Lodewick Fisher, Peter
Ridnor and Peter Smith. In Captain Samuel Ryerson's Company, Samuel Buchanan. In Captain Jacob
Buskirk's Company, James Ackerman.

Benjamin Ingraham, mentioned above, was a sergeant in the King's American Regiment; he served
in the Carolinas, where he nearly died of yellow fever, and was severely wounded in the battle
of Camden. He arrived at St. Ann's in a row-boat in October, 1783, and built a small log house
in the woods into which he moved on the 6th of November, at which time there was six inches
of snow on the ground.

The story now continues:

    When the Loyalists arrived there were only three houses standing on
    the old St. Ann's plain. Two of them were old frame houses, the
    other a log house (which stood near the old Fisher place). There
    were said to have been two bodies of people murdered here. It could
    not have been long before the arrival of the Loyalists that this
    happened.

    Many of the Loyalists who came in the spring had gone further up
    the river, but they were little better off for provisions than we
    were at St. Ann's. Supplies expected before the close of navigation
    did not come, and at one time starvation stared us in the face. It
    was a dreary contrast to our former conditions. Some of our men had
    to go down the river with hand-sleds or toboggans to get food for
    their famishing families. A full supply of provisions was looked
    for in the Spring, but the people were betrayed by those they
    depended upon to supply them. All the settlers were reduced to
    great straits and had to live after the Indian fashion. A party of
    Loyalists who came before us late in the spring, had gone up the
    river further, but they were no better off than those at St. Ann's.
    The men caught fish and hunted moose when they could. In the spring
    we made maple sugar. We ate fiddle heads, grapes and even the
    leaves of trees to allay the pangs of hunger. On one occasion some
    poisonous weeds were eaten along with the fiddle heads; one or two
    died, and Dr. Earle had all he could do to save my life.

    As soon as the snow was off the ground we began to build log
    houses, but were obliged to desist for want of food. Your
    grandfather went up the river to Captain McKay's for provisions,
    and found no one at home but an old colored slave woman, who said
    her master and his man had gone out to see if they could obtain
    some potatoes or meal, having in the house only half a box of
    biscuits. Some of the people at St. Ann's, who had planted a few
    potatoes, were obliged to dig them up and eat them.

Again a few comments will show the reliability of the old lady's
narrative. The three houses she mentions on the site of Fredericton
were those of Benjamin Atherton, built about 1767 at the upper end of
the town, near the site of the old Government House; Philip Weade's,
which stood on the river bank in front of the Cathedral, and Olivier
Thibodeau's, an Acadian, whose log house was at the lower end of town.
The tradition regarding the massacre of some of the first settlers at
St. Ann's refers doubtless to the destruction of the French settlement
there by McCurdy's New England Rangers in February, 1759, as is
described at page 242 in Dr. Raymond's "St. John River History." The
party of Loyalists, who had gone further up the river in the late
Spring of 1783, were the King's American Dragoons, who settled in
Prince William. They had
    probably been originally planted by the French, but were, now
    growing wild. In our joy at the discovery we called them at first
    the "Royal Provincials' bread," but afterwards "The staff of life
    and hope of the starving." I planted some of these beans with my
    own hands, and the seed was preserved in our family for many years.
    There was great rejoicing when the first schooner arrived with
    corn-meal and rye. In those days the best passages up and down the
    river took from three to five days. Sometimes the schooners were a
    week or ten days on the way. It was not during the first year alone
    that we suffered from want of food, other years were nearly as bad.

    The first summer after our arrival all hands united in building
    their log houses. Dr. Earle's was the first that was finished. Our
    people had but few tools and those of the rudest sort. They had
    neither bricks or lime, and chimneys and fireplaces were built of
    stone laid in yellow clay.

    The first store was kept by a man named Cairns, who lived in an old
    house on the bank of the river near the gate of the first Church
    built in Fredericton [in front of the present Cathedral]. He used
    to sell fish at one penny each and butternuts at two for a penny.
    He also sold tea at $2.00 per lb. which was to us a great boon. We
    greatly missed our tea. Sometimes we used an article called
    Labrador, and sometimes steeped spruce or hemlock bark for
    drinking, but I despised it.

    There were no domestic animals in our settlement at first except
    one black and white cat, which was a great pet. Some wicked
    fellows, who came from the States, killed, roasted and ate the cat,
    to our great indignation. A man named Conley owned the first cow.
    Poor Conley afterwards hanged himself, the reason for which was
    never known.

    For years there were no teams, and our people had to work hard to
    get their provisions. Potatoes were planted among the black stumps
    and turned out well. Pigeons used to come in great numbers and were
    shot or caught by the score in nets. We found in their crops some
    small round beans, which we planted; they grew very well and made
    excellent green beans, which we ate during the summer. In the
    winter time our people had sometimes to haul their provisions by
    hand fifty or a hundred miles over the ice or through the woods. In
    summer they came in slow sailing vessels. On one occasion Dr. Earle
    and others went up the river to Canada on snowshoes with hand
    sleds, returning with bags of flour and biscuits. It was a hard and
    dangerous journey, and they were gone a long time.

    For several years we lived in dread of the Indians, who were
    sometimes very bold. I have heard that the Indians from Canada once
    tried to murder the people on the St. John River. Coming down the
    river they captured an Indian woman of the St. John tribe, and the
    chief said they would spare her if she would be their guide. They
    had eleven canoes in all, and they were tied together and the canoe
    of the guide attached to the hindermost. As they drew near the
    Grand Falls, most of the party were asleep; and the rest were
    deceived by the woman, who told them that the roaring they heard
    was caused by a fall at the mouth of the stream which here joined
    the main river. At the critical moment the Indian woman cut the
    cord which fastened her canoe to the others and escaped to the
    shore, while the Canada Indians went over the fall and were lost.[1]

          [1] It is of interest to know that this legend was told by
          the Indians to the English settlers shortly after their
          arrival. The name of the Indian heroine is given as
          Malobianah, or Malabeam.

    In the early days of the settlement at St. Ann's, some fellows that
    had come from the States used to disturb the other settlers. They
    procured liquor at Vanhorne's tavern and drank heavily. They lived
    in a log cabin which soon became a resort for bad characters. They
    formed a plot to go up the river and plunder the
    settlers--provisions being their chief object. They agreed that if
    any of their party were killed in the expedition they should
    prevent discovery of their identity by putting him into a hole cut
    in the ice. While they were endeavoring to effect an entrance into
    a settler's house, a shot, fired out of a window, wounded a young
    man in the leg. The others then desisted from their attempt, but
    cut a hole in the ice and thrust the poor fellow in, who had been
    shot, although he begged to be allowed to die in the woods, and
    promised, if found alive not to betray them, but they would not
    trust him.

Here the story of the old grandmother comes abruptly to an end. Enough, however, is preserved
in these extracts to indicate the source of a good deal of the very valuable information concerning
the early experience of the Loyalists in the New Brunswick wilderness, which appears in Mr.
Fisher's "Sketches of New-Brunswick." Doubtless what he has related on this topic in his little
book is based upon what he learned from the lips of his mother. To her care and devotion, in
all human probability, he owed his preservation during the first eventful winter spent under
canvas on the old St. Ann's plain.

Peter Fisher acquired a pretty good education, for those days. A fac simile of his signature
is here given, which shows that his penmanship was excellent, and compared more than favorably
with that of his son and name-sake, Lewis Peter Fisher, who was for some thirty odd years mayor
of Woodstock, and the leading barrister of that place, and whose signature is also here given
for comparison.

The advantages of education were not great in the elder Peter Fisher's day, but he had a pretty
competent instructor in an English school master, Bealing Stephens Williams, who was born in
Cornwall in 1754, and came to Nova-Scotia, a clerk in the navy in 1779. He settled in Cumberland,
N.S., where he taught school and was married, removing to Fredericton in 1790, where he again
taught school for nearly forty years. He was an accomplished penman and an expert in arithmetic
and the elementary mathematics. There can be no doubt, I think, that Fisher was indebted to
this gentleman for an education that was very fair indeed, in the then circumstances of the
country. Fisher unquestionably possessed a good deal of natural ability, and was something
of a philosopher, as will appear when we come to consider his writings. He carried on quite
an extensive business in lumbering at one time. He was noted as a tireless pedestrian and there
were few, even among his juniors, who could keep pace with him in a walk of fifty miles, which
he thought nothing of. He married on August 15, 1807, Susanna Stephens Williams, the Rev. George
Pidgeon, rector of Fredericton, officiating at the wedding. Their family was a large one, seven
sons and four daughters.[2] The late Judge Charles Fisher, who was born September 16, 1808,
was the oldest. Another son, Henry Fisher, was Chief Superintendent of Education of New-Brunswick.
Lewis Peter Fisher, a younger son, was for years Woodstock's most prominent citizen and a very
eminent lawyer. Another son, William Fisher, was for some years Indian Commissioner. One of
the daughters was the wife of Hon. Charles Connell, Postmaster General, at one time in the
local government, and a member of the first Dominion Parliament for the County of Carleton.
At least three of the sons of Peter Fisher were actively interested in education. Of these
Charles Fisher received the degree of B.A. at King's College, now the University of New Brunswick,
in 1830. His was the first class to graduate after the incorporation of the college by Royal
Charter, under the name of King's College with the style and privileges of a University. He
read law with Judge Street, then Advocate General, was admitted attorney in 1831 and barrister
in 1833. He spent a year at one of the Inns of Court in England. His Alma Mater conferred on
him the degree of D.C.L. in 1866. Judge Fisher during his public life was a warm friend of
the College at Fredericton. At the session of the provincial legislature, in 1859, he moved
the bill under which the old King's College was transformed into the University of New-Brunswick.
He was later a member of the Senate of the University.

      [2] I am pretty certain that Susanna Stephens Williams was a
      daughter of Bealing Stephens Williams, the school master.--W. O.
      R.

Henry Fisher has already been mentioned as one of the early Chief Superintendents of Education.
His portrait may be seen in the office of Dr. W. S. Carter, Chief Superintendent of Education,
in Fredericton.

Lewis Peter Fisher, of Woodstock, was for years an active Trustee of the Carleton County Grammar
School, and a strenuous advocate of Free School Education. He had no children. By his will
he left his large fortune to establish a number of institutions of an educational and philanthropic
character in the town of Woodstock, the affairs of which he had long ably administered as mayor.
These institutions include:

The Fisher Memorial Hospital, established at a cost of      $50,000 00
Fisher Memorial Public School                                60,000 00
  "    Vocational School                                     48,000 00
  "    Free Public Library                                   50,000 00
                                                           -----------
      Total                                                $208,000 00

This is the largest individual benefaction to any community in New-Brunswick, if not in the
Maritime Provinces. The memorial buildings are all situated within the limits of the town of
Woodstock, and, with the exception of the hospital, are handsome substantial brick buildings.
In addition to the gift of the buildings and their equipment, the estate contributes from time
to time to their maintenance, under the capable administration of the trustees, A. B. Connell,
K. C., and Col. F. H. J. Dibblee. It will thus be seen that although the late Mayor of Woodstock
left no child to perpetuate his name, his memory will be kept green for future generations
as a philanthropist and a man of high ideals.

Space will not admit of any extended reference to the descendants of our first provincial historian.
A short sketch of the life of the Hon. Charles Fisher will be found in Lawrence's "Judges of
New-Brunswick and their Times," pages 528-532. As a man who in his day rendered essential service
to his native province, Charles Fisher deserves a more extensive biography than has hitherto
been attempted by any writer.

