LAWRENCE J. BURPEE, Librarian Ottawa Public Library; author of "Canadian Life in Town and Country,"
etc.

BLISS CARMAN, poet, essayist, and editor.

THOMAS B. FLINT, Clerk House of Commons, Canada; editor "Parliamentary Practice and Procedure."

CHARLES G.D. ROBERTS, writer of animal stories.

JANET H. KELMAN, author "Stories from the Crusades," "A Book of Butterflies," etc.

VAUTIER GOLDING, author "Life of Henry M. Stanley," etc.

LENA DALKEITH, author "A Book of Beasts," "Stories from French History," etc.

H.E. MARSHALL, author "A Child's History of England." "History of English Literature," etc.

JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS, creator of "Uncle Remus."

GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON, novelist and journalist.

WILLIAM BLAIKIE, author of "How to Get Strong and How to Stay So."

ELBRIDGE S. BROOKS, author "Historic Boys," etc.

PAULINE C. BOUVÉ, author "Stories of American Heroes for Boys and Girls," etc.

CONTENTS

Introduction

CLASSIC TALES

Don Quixote

By Miguel Cervantes. Adapted by John Lang

     I. HOW DON QUIXOTE WAS KNIGHTED

    II. HOW DON QUIXOTE RESCUED ANDRES; AND HOW HE RETURNED HOME

   III. HOW DON QUIXOTE AND SANCHO PANZA STARTED ON THEIR SEARCH FOR
        ADVENTURES; AND HOW DON QUIXOTE FOUGHT WITH THE WINDMILLS

    IV. HOW DON QUIXOTE WON A HELMET; HOW HE FOUGHT WITH TWO ARMIES; AND
        HOW SANCHO'S ASS WAS STOLEN

     V. HOW DON QUIXOTE SAW DULCINEA

    VI. HOW DON QUIXOTE FOUGHT WITH A LION; AND HOW HE DEFEATED THE MOORS

   VII. THE BATTLE WITH THE BULLS; THE FIGHT WITH THE KNIGHT OF THE WHITE
        MOON; AND HOW DON QUIXOTE DIED

Gulliver's Travels: Voyage to Lilliput

By Jonathan Swift. Adapted by John Lang

     I. GULLIVER'S BIRTH AND EARLY VOYAGES

    II. GULLIVER IS WRECKED ON THE COAST OF LILLIPUT

   III. GULLIVER IS TAKEN AS A PRISONER TO THE CAPITAL OF LILLIPUT

    IV. GULLIVER IS FREED, AND CAPTURES THE BLEFUSCAN FLEET

     V. GULLIVER'S ESCAPE FROM LILLIPUT AND RETURN TO ENGLAND

The Arabian Nights

Adapted by Amy Steedman

     I. ALADDIN AND THE WONDERFUL LAMP

    II. THE ENCHANTED HORSE

   III. SINDBAD THE SAILOR

The Iliad of Homer

Adapted by Jeanie Lang

     I. THE STORY Of WHAT LED TO THE SIEGE OF TROY

    II. THE COUNCIL

   III. THE FIGHT BETWEEN PARIS AND MENELAUS

    IV. HECTOR AND ANDROMACHE

     V. HOW PATROCLUS FOUGHT AND DIED

    VI. THE ROUSING OF ACHILLES

The Odyssey of Homer

Adapted by Jeanie Lang

     I. WHAT HAPPENED IN ITHACA WHILE ODYSSEUS WAS AWAY

    II. HOW ODYSSEUS CAME HOME

Robinson Crusoe

By Daniel Defoe. Adapted by John Lang

     I. HOW ROBINSON FIRST WENT TO SEA; AND HOW HE WAS SHIPWRECKED

    II. ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING HIMSELF A HOME

   III. THE EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE; AND HOW ROBINSON BUILT A BOAT

    IV. ROBINSON BUILDS A SECOND BOAT, IN WHICH HE IS SWEPT OUT TO SEA

     V. ROBINSON SEES A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND, FINDS A CAVE, AND RESCUES
        FRIDAY

    VI. ROBINSON TRAINS FRIDAY AND THEY BUILD A LARGE BOAT; THEY RESCUE
        TWO PRISONERS FROM THE CANNIBALS

   VII. ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP: ROBINSON SAILS FOR HOME

Canterbury Tales

By Geoffrey Chaucer. Adapted by Janet Harvey Kelman

     I. DORIGEN

    II. EMELIA

   III. GRISELDA

The Pilgrim's Progress

By John Bunyan. Adapted by Mary Macgregor

Tales from Shakespeare

By Charles and Mary Lamb

     I. THE TEMPEST

    II. A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM

OLD-FASHIONED STORIES

Simple Susan

By Maria Edgeworth. Adapted by Louey Chisholm

     I. QUEEN OF THE MAY

    II. BAD NEWS

   III. SUSAN'S GUINEA-FOWL

    IV. SUSAN VISITS THE ABBEY

     V. SUSAN'S PET LAMB

    VI. THE BLIND HARPER

   VII. GOOD NEWS

  VIII. BARBARA VISITS THE ABBEY

    IX. A SURPRISE FOR SUSAN

     X. BARBARA'S ACCIDENT

    XI. THE PRIZE-GIVING

   XII. ATTORNEY CASE IN TROUBLE

  XIII. SUSAN'S BIRTHDAY

Limby Lumpy

The Sore Tongue

By Jane Taylor

Eyes and No Eyes, or The Art of Seeing

By John Aikin and Mrs. Barbauld

Prince Life

By G.P.R. James

The Fruits of Disobedience, or The Kidnapped Child

Dicky Random, or Good Nature Is Nothing Without Good Conduct

Embellishment

By Jacob Abbott

The Oyster Patties

Two Little Boys

By Thomas Day

     I. THE GOOD-NATURED LITTLE BOY

    II. THE ILL-NATURED LITTLE BOY

The Purple Jar

By Maria Edgeworth

The Three Cakes

By Armand Berquin

Amendment

Trial

By John Aikin and Mrs. Barbauld

A Plot of Gunpowder: An Old Lady Seized for a Guy

Ascribed to William Martin ("Peter Parley")

Uncle David's Nonsensical Story About Giants and Fairies

By Katherine Sinclair

The Inquisitive Girl

Busy Idleness

By Jane Taylor

The Renowned History of Little Goody Two-Shoes

Ascribed to Oliver Goldsmith

INTRODUCTION

     I. HOW AND ABOUT LITTLE MARGERY AND HER BROTHER

    II. HOW AND ABOUT MR. SMITH

   III. HOW LITTLE MARGERY OBTAINED THE NAME OF GOODY TWO-SHOES, AND
        WHAT HAPPENED IN THE PARISH

    IV. HOW LITTLE MARGERY LEARNED TO READ, AND BY DEGREES TAUGHT OTHERS

     V. HOW LITTLE TWO-SHOES BECAME A TROTTING TUTORESS, AND HOW SHE
        TAUGHT HER YOUNG PUPILS

    VI. HOW THE WHOLE PARISH WAS FRIGHTENED

   VII. CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF ALL THE SPIRITS OR THINGS SHE SAW IN THE
        CHURCH

  VIII. OF SOMETHING WHICH HAPPENED TO LITTLE MARGERY TWO-SHOES IN A
        BARN, MORE DREADFUL THAN THE GHOST IN THE CHURCH; AND HOW SHE
        RETURNED GOOD FOR EVIL TO HER ENEMY, SIR TIMOTHY

    IX. HOW LITTLE MARGERY WAS MADE PRINCIPAL OF A COUNTRY COLLEGE

(Part Two.) The Renowned History of Mrs. Margery Two-Shoes

     I. OF HER SCHOOL, HER USHERS, OR ASSISTANTS, AND HER MANNER OF
        TEACHING

    II. A SCENE OF DISTRESS IN A SCHOOL

   III. OF THE AMAZING SAGACITY AND INSTINCT OF A LITTLE DOG

    IV. WHAT HAPPENED AT FARMER GROVE'S, AND HOW SHE GRATIFIED HIM FOR
        THE USE OF HIS ROOM

     V. THE CASE OF MRS. MARGERY

    VI. THE TRUE USE OF RICHES

ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME III

THE HORSE FLEW THROUGH THE AIR

"PAY AT ONCE, YOU SCOUNDREL"

HORSE AND MAN WERE SENT ROLLING ON THE GROUND

THE BULLS HAD RUN RIGHT OVER HIM AND ROZINANTE

HE FOUND THAT HIS ARMS AND LEGS WERE TIGHTLY FASTENED TO THE GROUND

GULLIVER IN LILLIPUT

ON THIS OCCASION, GULLIVER ATE MORE THAN USUAL

ALADDIN AND THE MAGICIAN

HINDBAD WAS CARRYING A VERY HEAVY LOAD

FROM FAR AND WIDE DID THE GREEK HOSTS GATHER

ANDROMACHE IN CAPTIVITY

TELEMACHUS KNELT WHERE THE GRAY WATER BROKE ON THE SAND

THE ESCAPE FROM THE SHIPWRECK

HE SAW THE MARK OF A NAKED FOOT ON THE SAND

ROBINSON RAN TO THE WHITE PRISONER AND CUT HIS BONDS

ALAS! OF ALL THE SHIPS I SEE, IS THERE NEVER ONE THAT WILL BRING MY LORD HOME?

THE CURTAIN AT THE DOORWAY WAS DRAWN ASIDE

THEN DID CHRISTIAN DRAW HIS SWORD

MIRANDA WATCHING THE STORM

THE FAIRIES SING TITANIA TO SLEEP

BENDING DOWN A BRANCH OF THE LABURNUM-TREE

"IT WON'T DO," SAID BARBARA, TURNING HER BACK

"AND HERE'S HER CROWN!" Homer, Shakespeare, Chaucer, Cervantes and Bunyan will be found here
as familiar and easy in style as "Cinderella" or "The Three Bears." True enough, the first
word in "Classic Tales" may look somewhat alarming to the eyes of youthful seekers after romance
and adventure, but we challenge them to turn to any one of these selections from immortal masterpieces
and not become spellbound and, moreover, impatient for more. And, believing now that they have
grown very much interested in these famous books, of course we also believe they want to learn
something about them.

Following the order of our stories we must begin with "Don Quixote." Its author wrote it under
great difficulties and distress; but one would never think so, as it is full of laughable doings.
When you read our selections you must not think that Don Quixote was merely a silly old man,
for indeed he was a very noble gentleman and tried with all his might to do what he believed
to be his duty, and in no act of his life was there ever a stain of dishonor or of meanness.
As for his queer fancies, you will find in your own experience that many things are not as
they seem.

Next comes one of Gulliver's voyages. Under all this account of a tiny race of people there
is fun poked at government and its ministers. But we do not concern ourselves with such matters--all
we think about is the wonderful deeds of Gulliver in the land of the Lilliputians. Do not think
such people are impossible, for did not Stanley, the explorer, find in Africa a race of dwarfs
so little that he called them pygmies? And perhaps when some of our young readers grow up,
they, too, may discover small folks in the world.

In regard to the "Arabian Nights," from which we give you three choice stories, you ought to
know the way they came to be told. Once upon a time, a Sultan of Arabia thought that all women
were of not much use, so every day he married a new wife, and before twenty-four hours were
over he ordered that she have her head cut off. One brave woman thought of a clever plan by
which she could end this cruelty. She went to the palace and offered to marry the Sultan, and
that night she began to tell him such fascinating stories that when morning came he still wished
to hear more. He commanded that she should not be beheaded until all her stories were told.
Then for a thousand and one nights, night after night, she gave him fresh stories, and by the
end of that time the Sultan had fallen very much in love with her. Naturally, they lived happily
forever after. Perhaps these three stories which we have selected will compel you to seek out
all the rest, and if you do, we are quite sure you will not wonder that the brave lady won
the heart of the wicked Sultan and made him good.

From the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" of Homer, we have given you some soul-stirring happenings.
Several thousand years ago these stories were sung by a blind minstrel named Homer. Some day
you may read Homer's sublime poetry in the original Greek, and the selections which we give
you will help you to remember the stories when you are struggling with that difficult language.

Parts of the old favorite "Robinson Crusoe" follow the Grecian tales, and we trust its simple
language will make the little ones love it more than ever. You will remember that Defoe wrote
this nearly two hundred years ago. Everybody liked long stories in those days, but we have
all heard children of to-day ask when a somewhat lengthy book would end, no matter how interesting,
and many grown-ups are guilty of reading the close of a story before they have gone very far
in it. So with that in mind we have put down in brief form most of Robinson Crusoe's important
adventures during his twenty-eight years on the desert island.

Here we also give three splendid stories from Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales," which were supposedly
told to one another by a party of pilgrims on their way to Canterbury. According to our gentle
author, who was one of them, they stopped over night at a house in England called the Tabard
Inn, and here they passed the hours repeating fine stories. Afterward Chaucer wrote these down
in a book in quaint old English. One might look at these words all day long and not know in
the least what what some of them meant, though they do hold such beautiful tales.

Now about "Pilgrim's Progress." More than two hundred years ago a tinker named John Bunyan
was in jail, but one night this poor man left his prison and wandered into the land of dreams.
There he saw wonderful sights and heard marvelous things, and as there was no one to listen
to his dream, John Bunyan wrote it down, and had it made into a book. And this he called "The
Pilgrim's Progress." It was about the journey and adventures of a pilgrim and his companions.
In our version we have given most of the dream, but when the boys and girls grow older they
will want to read it all in Bunyan's own language, and we hope this account will lead them
to do so.

Shakespeare is a magic name to grown-ups, but to children it does not mean much. All they know
is, that sometimes this name is spelled on the back of one fat volume, sometimes on three,
sometimes on a dozen or more, but of the inside they know almost nothing, and when they hear
persons say that Shakespeare is the greatest writer that ever lived, they wonder about it.
If they take down a volume containing one of his plays, they think it very dull, but here in
simple language we present the stories of two of the most fairy-like and beautiful plays, as
retold for children by Charles and Mary Lamb.

DANIEL EDWIN WHEELER.

II

OLD-FASHIONED STORIES

There is much truth in the saying that "old things are best, old books are best, old friends
are best." We like to connect in thought our best-loved books and our best-loved friends. A
good friend must have some of the wisdom of a good book, though good books often talk to us
with wisdom and also with humor and courtesy greater than any living friend may show. "Sometimes
we think books are the best friends; they never interrupt or contradict or criticise us."

Every year in our own country about ten thousand books are published. Most of them die in early
life. Three hundred years from now every one of this year's ten thousand books will be dead
and forgotten, except possibly thirty or forty. The very best books do not die young. The books
written about three hundred years ago that are read to-day--like Shakespeare's plays--are as
a rule the books that deserve to live forever. And, "Gentle Reader," if you are wise you will
see why the old books are best: they are the wheat, and the winds of time have blown only the
chaff away.

Is it not strange that in the olden times so few poems or books or stories were written for
children? The "Iliad," the stories of King Arthur, the "Canterbury Tales," and "Gulliver's
Travels" and "Robinson Crusoe," were written for men and women.

But happily this is the children's age, and now nearly half of all the books written are written
for children. You must remember, however, that all boys and girls are children--in the eyes
of the law--till they are twenty-one years old.

We know a little boy who read last week a very modern story. The book was bound in red cloth.
It had a gilt top and very modern pictures drawn by a great artist and printed in three or
four colors. How different from the books of one hundred years ago, with their black covers
and queer pictures!

This story read by the little New York boy last week has been read by many little boys in Iowa,
and by many little girls in Georgia. It tells about an orphan boy who was "bound out" to a
farmer who treated him cruelly. He ran away to the Rocky Mountain region, where he had many
adventures with robbers and Indians and blizzards. He was strong and heroic; he could shoot
straight and ride the swiftest horses, and nothing ever hurt him very much.

This, as I have said, is a modern story. It does not tell the reader to be truthful and good.
It just tells him a story of thrilling adventures and daring escapes from danger. But the old-fashioned
story is different; and now we are getting close to our subject.

I will tell you all about the old-fashioned stories in a moment; but I must remind you that
these old stories were written about a hundred years ago. They were usually written to teach
a moral lesson. Dear old John Aikin, or his sister Anna Letitia Barbauld, or Maria Edgeworth,
or Jane Taylor would say some morning--at any rate, so it seems to me--"I will write a story
to-day to teach boys and girls to be industrious." And so "Busy Idleness" was written. Or one
of these old authors would decide to write a story the main object of which was to teach little
girls not to be too curious, and so "The Inquisitive Girl" was written. Both of these stories,
and many others equally good, are found in this volume.

I could really tell you many interesting things about these old-fashioned stories but I will
do something better--urge you to read them yourself. They are quaint, delightful, and entertaining
stories, besides teaching a moral. You boys and girls should read every one of them, and then
read them again, out loud, to your mothers or to anybody else who will listen.

Among all the old-fashioned stories in this volume I find only one that seems to me "really
funny," and that is "Uncle David's Nonsensical Story about the Giants and Fairies." Think of
a giant so tall that "he was obliged to climb up a ladder to comb his own hair." But this bit
of humor is not so good as a very modern nonsense-story entitled "The Giant's Shoes," which
I read the other day, and from which the Managing Editor permits me to quote this little passage:

"The Giant slept for three weeks at a time, and two days after he woke his breakfast was brought
to him, consisting of bright brown horses sprinkled on his bread and butter. Besides his boots,
the Giant had a pair of shoes, and in one of them his wife lived when she was at home; on other
occasions she lived in the other shoe. She was a sensible, practical kind of woman, with two
wooden legs and a clothes-horse, but in other respects not rich. The wooden legs were kept
pointed at both ends, in order that if the Giant were dissatisfied with his breakfast, he might
pick up any stray people that were within reach, using his wife as a fork; this annoyed the
inhabitants of the district, so that they built their church in a southwesterly direction from
the castle, behind the Giant's back, that he might not be able to pick them up as they went
in. But those who stayed outside to play pitch-and-toss were exposed to great danger and sufferings."

With him lived his niece, a housekeeper, and a man who looked after Quixada's farm and his
one old white horse, which, though its master imagined it to be an animal of great strength
and beauty, was really as lean as Quixada himself and as broken down as any old cab horse.

Quixada had nothing in the world to do in the shape of work, and so, his whole time was taken
up in reading old books about knights and giants, and ladies shut up in enchanted castles by
wicked ogres. In time, so fond did he become of such tales that he passed his days, and even
the best part of his nights, in reading them. His mind was so wholly taken up in this way that
at last he came to believe that he himself lived in a land of giants and of ogres, and that
it was his duty to ride forth on his noble steed, to the rescue of unhappy Princesses.

In the lumber-room of Quixada's house there had lain, ever since he was born, a rusty old suit
of armor, which had belonged to his great-grandfather. This was now got out, and Quixada spent
many days in polishing and putting it in order.

Unfortunately, there was no more than half of the helmet to be found, and a knight cannot ride
forth without a helmet.

So Quixada made the other half of strong pasteboard; and to prove that it was strong enough,
when finished, he drew his sword and gave the helmet a great slash. Alas! a whole week's work
was ruined by that one stroke; the pasteboard flew into pieces. This troubled Quixada sadly,
but he set to work at once and made another helmet of pasteboard, lining it with thin sheets
of iron, and it looked so well that, this time, he put it to no test with his sword.

Now that his armor was complete, it occurred to him that he must give his horse a name--every
knight's horse should have a good name--and after four days thought he decided that "Rozinante"
would best suit the animal.

Then, for himself, after eight days of puzzling, he resolved that he should be called Don Quixote
de la Mancha.

There was but one thing more. Every knight of olden time had a lady, whom he called the Mistress
of his Heart, whose glove he wore in his helmet; and if anybody dared to deny that this lady
was the most beautiful woman in the whole world, then the knight made him prove his words by
fighting.

So it was necessary that Don Quixote should select some lady as the Mistress of his Heart.

Near La Mancha there lived a stout country lass, for whom some years before Don Quixote had
had a kind of liking. Who, therefore, could better take the place of Mistress of his Heart?
To whom could he better send the defeated knights and ogres whom he was going out to fight?
It was true that her name. Aldonza Lorenzo, did not sound like that of a Princess or lady of
high birth; so he determined in future to call her Dulcinea del Toboso. No Princess could have
a sweeter name!

All being now ready, one morning Don Quixote got up before daylight, and without saying a word
to anybody, put on his armor, took his sword, and spear, and shield, saddled "Rozinante," and
started on his search for adventures.

But before he had gone very far, a dreadful thought struck him. He had not been knighted! Moreover,
he had read in his books that until a knight had done some great deed, he must wear white armor,
and be without any device or coat of arms on his shield. What was to be done? He was so staggered
by this thought that he almost felt that he must turn back. But then he remembered that he
had read how adventurers were sometimes knighted by persons whom they happened to meet on the
road. And as to his armor, why, he thought he might scour and polish that till nothing could
be whiter. So he rode on, letting "Rozinante" take which road he pleased, that being, he supposed,
as good a way as any of looking for adventures.

All day he rode, to his sorrow without finding anything worth calling an adventure.

At last as evening began to fall, and when he and his horse were both very weary, they came
in sight of an inn. Don Quixote no sooner saw the inn than he fancied it to be a great castle,
and he halted at some distance from it, expecting that, as in days of old, a dwarf would certainly
appear on the battlements, and, by sounding a trumpet, give notice of the arrival of a knight.
But no dwarf appeared, and as "Rozinante" showed great haste to reach the stable, Don Quixote
began to move towards the inn.

At this moment it happened that a swineherd in a field near at hand sounded his horn to bring
his herd of pigs home to be fed. Don Quixote, imagining that this must be the dwarf at last
giving notice of his coming, rode quickly up to the inn door, beside which it chanced that
there stood two very impudent young women, whom the Knight imagined to be two beautiful ladies
taking the air at the castle gate.

Astonished at the sight of so strange a figure, and a little frightened, the girls turned to
run away. But Don Quixote stopped them.

"I beseech ye, ladies, do not fly," he said. "I will harm no one, least of all maidens of rank
so high as yours."

And much more he said, whereat the young women laughed so loud and so long that Don Quixote
became very angry, and there is no saying what he might not have done had not the innkeeper
at that moment come out. This innkeeper was very fat and good-natured, and anxious not to offend
anybody, but even he could hardly help laughing when he saw Don Quixote. However, he very civilly
asked the Knight to dismount and offered him everything that the inn could provide.

Don Quixote being by this time both tired and hungry, with some difficulty got off his horse
and handed it to the innkeeper (to whom he spoke as governor of the castle), asking him to
take the greatest care of "Rozinante," for in the whole world there was no better steed.

When the landlord returned from the stable, he found Don Quixote in a room, where, with the
help of the two young women, he was trying to get rid of his armor. His back and breastplates
had been taken off, but by no means could his helmet be removed without cutting the green ribbons
with which he had tied it on, and this the Knight would not allow.

There was nothing for it, therefore, but to keep his helmet on all night, and to eat and drink
in it, which was more than he could do without help. However, one of the young women fed him,
and the innkeeper having made a kind of funnel, through it poured the wine into his mouth,
and Don Quixote ate his supper in great peace of mind.

There was but one thing that still vexed him. He had not yet been knighted.

On this subject he thought long and deeply, and at last he asked the innkeeper to come with
him to the stable. Having shut the door, Don Quixote threw himself at the landlord's feet,
saying, "I will never rise from this place, most valorous Knight, until you grant me a boon."

The innkeeper was amazed, but as he could not by any means make Don Quixote rise, he promised
to do whatever was asked.

"Then, noble sir," said Don Quixote, "the boon which I crave is that to-morrow you will be
pleased to grant me the honor of knighthood."

The landlord, when he heard such talk, thought that the wisest thing he could do was to humor
his guest, and he readily promised. Thereupon Don Quixote very happily rose to his feet, and
after some further talk he said to the innkeeper that this night he would "watch his armor"
in the chapel of the castle, it being the duty of any one on whom the honor of knighthood was
to be conferred, to stand on his feet in the chapel, praying, until the morning. The innkeeper,
thinking that great sport might come of this, encouraged Don Quixote, but as his own chapel
had lately--so he said--been pulled down in order that a better might be built, he advised
Don Quixote to watch that night in the courtyard. This was "lawful in a case where a chapel
was not at hand. And in the morning," he said, "I will knight you."

"Have you any money?" then asked the innkeeper.

"Not a penny," said Don Quixote, "for I never yet read of any knight who carried money with him."

"You are greatly mistaken," answered the innkeeper. "Most knights had squires, who carried
their money and clean shirts and other things. But when a knight had no squire, he always carried
his money and his shirts, and salve for his wounds, in a little bag behind his saddle. I must
therefore advise you never in future to go anywhere without money."

Don Quixote promised to remember this. Then taking his armor, he went into the inn yard and
laid it in a horse-trough.

Backwards and forwards, spear in hand, he marched in the moonlight, very solemnly keeping his
eyes on his armor, while the innkeeper's other guests, laughing, looked on from a distance.

Now it happened that a carrier who lodged at the inn came into the yard to water his mules,
and this he could not do while the armor lay in the horse-trough. As Don Quixote saw the man
come up, "Take heed, rash Knight," he cried. "Defile not by a touch the armor of the most brave
knight-errant that ever wore a sword."

But the mule-driver took no notice of Don Quixote. He picked up the armor and threw it away.

Don Quixote no sooner saw this than, raising his eyes to heaven, and calling on his Lady Dulcinea
del Toboso, he lifted up his spear with both hands and gave the mule-driver such a whack over
the head that the man fell down senseless. Then, picking up his armor and putting it back in
the horse-trough, he went on with his march, taking no further notice of the poor mule-driver.

Soon up came another carrier who also wanted to water his mules.

Not a word did Don Quixote say this time, but he lifted up his spear and smote so heavily that
he broke the man's head in three or four places. The poor wretch made such an outcry that all
the people in the inn came running, and the friends of the two carriers began to pelt Don Quixote
with stones. But drawing his sword, and holding his shield in front of him, he defied them
all, crying, "Come on, base knaves! Draw nearer if you dare!"

The landlord now came hurrying up and stopped the stone-throwing; then, having calmed Don Quixote,
he said that there was no need for him to watch his armor any longer; to finish the ceremony
it would now be enough if he were touched on the neck and shoulders with a sword. Don Quixote
was quite satisfied, and prayed the innkeeper to get the business over as quickly as possible,
"for," said he, "if I were but knighted, and should see myself attacked, I believe that I should
not leave a man alive in this castle."

The innkeeper, a good deal alarmed at this, and anxious to get rid of him, hurried off and
got the book in which he kept his accounts, which he pretended was a kind of book of prayer.
Having also brought the two young women, and a boy to hold a candle, he ordered Don Quixote
to kneel. Then muttering from his book, as if he were reading, he finished by giving Don Quixote
a good blow on the neck, and a slap on the back, with the flat of a sword. After this, one
of the young women belted the sword round the newly made knight's waist, while the other buckled
on his spurs, and having at once saddled "Rozinante." Don Quixote was ready to set out.

The innkeeper was only too glad to see him go, even without paying for his supper.

II

HOW DON QUIXOTE RESCUED ANDRES; AND HOW HE RETURNED HOME

As he rode along in the early morning light, Don Quixote began to think that it would be well
that he should return home for a little, there to lay in a stock of money and of clean shirts,
and he turned his willing horse's head in the direction of his village.

But ere he had gone far on his way, coming from a thicket he fancied that he heard cries of
distress.

"Certainly these are the moans of some poor creature in want of help," thought Don Quixote.
"I thank Heaven for so soon giving me the chance to perform my duty as a knight."

And he rode quickly towards the sounds. No sooner had he reached the wood than he saw a horse
tied to a tree, and bound to another was a lad of fifteen, all naked above the waist. By his
side stood a countryman beating him with a strap, and with every blow calling out, "I'll teach
you to keep your eyes open, you young scamp. I'll teach you to keep your mouth shut."

The boy howled with pain. Quickly Don Quixote rode up to the man.

"Sir Knight," said he angrily, "I would have thee to know that it is an unworthy act to strike
one who cannot defend himself. Mount thy steed, therefore, take thy spear, and I will teach
thee that thou art a coward."

The countryman gave himself up for lost, and he gasped out very humbly that the boy was his
servant, through whose carelessness many of the sheep that he should have watched had been
lost, and that therefore he was giving him a sound beating. "And," said he, "because I beat
him for his carelessness, he says I do it to cheat him out of his wages."

"What!" shouted Don Quixote, "do you dare to lie to me? By the sun above us, I have a mind
to run you through with my spear. Pay the boy this instant, and let him go free. What does
he owe you, boy?"

The boy said that the man owed him nine months' wages.

"Pay at once, you scoundrel, unless you want to be killed," roared Don Quixote.

The poor man, trembling with fear, said that there was a mistake; he did not owe nearly so
much, and besides, he had no money with him. But if Andres would go home with him he would
pay every penny.

"Go home with him!" cried the boy. "I know a trick worth two of that. No sooner will he have
me home than he'll take the skin off me. No, no, not I!"

"He will not dare to touch you," said the Knight. "I command him, and that is enough. If he
swears by his order of knighthood to do this thing, I will let him go, and he will pay you
your wages."

"Of course I will," said the man. "Come along with me. Andres, and I swear I'll give you all
I owe."

"Remember, then, what you have promised, for I am Don Quixote de la Mancha, the righter of
wrongs, and it is at your peril to disobey me."

So saying, Don Quixote clapped spurs to his horse, and galloped off through the trees.

The countryman watched till the Knight was out of sight. Then, turning, he said "Come, my lad,
and I'll pay thee what I owe, and more."

"Ay," answered the boy, "see that you do, for if you do not, that brave man will come back
and make you."

"I dare swear that," said the man. "And just to show how much I love you, I am going to increase
the debt, so that I may pay you more. Come here!"

And with that he caught the boy by the arm, tied him again to the tree, and belted him till
his arm was tired.

"Now go," he said, "and tell your righter of wrongs. I wish I had flayed you alive, you young
whelp."

And so ended Don Quixote's first attempt to right wrongs.

As the Knight cantered along, very well pleased with himself, about two miles from where he
had freed the boy he saw riding towards him six men, each shading himself under a large umbrella.
With them were four mounted servants, and three on foot.

No sooner did Don Quixote see this party than it struck him that here was the chance for which,
above all others, he had been longing.

Posting himself in the middle of the road, he waited till the men were at no great distance.
Then, "Halt!" shouted he. "Let all know that no man shall pass further till he owns that in
the whole world there is no damsel more beautiful than the peerless Dulcinea del Toboso."

"But," said the men (who were merchants of Toledo, on their way to buy silks), "we do not know
the lady. We have never seen her. How then can we say that she is beautiful?"

"What!" roared Don Quixote in a terrible rage, "not know the beauteous Lady Dulcinea del Toboso!
That only makes matters worse. Do you dare to argue?"

And with that he couched his spear, drove his spurs into "Rozinante," and rode furiously at
the nearest merchant.

What he would have done it is not possible to say. But as he galloped, it chanced that "Rozinante"
stumbled and fell heavily, rolling Don Quixote over and over. There the Knight lay helpless,
the weight of his armor preventing him from rising to his feet. But as he lay, he continued
to cry out at the top of his voice, "Stop, you rascals! Do not fly. It is my horse's fault
that I lie here, you cowards!"

One of the grooms, hearing his master called a rascal and a coward, thereupon ran up and snatched
away Don Quixote's spear, which he broke in pieces. Then with each piece he belabored the poor
Knight till the broken lance flew into splinters. The merchants then rode away, leaving Don
Quixote lying where he fell, still shouting threats, but quite unable to rise.

There he was found by a man who knew him well, and who with great difficulty mounted him on
his donkey and took him home. When at last they reached Don Quixote's house, the poor Knight
was put to bed, where he lay for many days, raving, and very ill.

During this time the Curate of the village and the Barber came and burned nearly all the books
which Don Quixote had so loved.

"For," said they, "it is by reading these books that the poor gentleman has lost his mind,
and if he reads them again he will never get better."

So a bonfire was made of the books, and the door of Don Quixote's study was bricked up.

When the Knight was again able to go about, he made at once for his study and his beloved books.
Up and down the house he searched without saying a word, and often he would stand where the
door of the study used to be, feeling with his hands and gazing about. At last he asked his
housekeeper to show him the study.

"Study!" cried the woman, "what study? There is no study in this house now, nor any books."

"No," said his niece. "When you were away, a famous enchanter came along, mounted on a dragon,
and he went into your study. What he did there we know not. But after a time he flew out of
the roof, leaving the house full of smoke, and ever since then we have not been able to find
either books or study."

"Ha!" said Don Quixote. "That must have been Freston. He is a famous enchanter, and my bitter
enemy. But when I am again well I shall get the better of him." But he had not forgotten the
things for which he had come back to his village.

There was a farm laborer who lived near by, a fat, good-natured, simple man. To him Don Quixote
talked long and often, and made many promises; among others that if he would but come with
him as squire, he should be made governor of any island which the Knight might happen to conquer
during his search after adventures.

This seemed so grand a thing to the man (whose name was Sancho Panza), that he willingly promised
to come.

Having got together some money, and having made other preparations, Don Quixote and Sancho
Panza one dark night stole out of the village without a word to any one, and began their adventures.

Don Quixote rode "Rozinante;" Sancho Panza was mounted on an ass. That his squire should ride
an ass at first troubled the Knight not a little, for in none of his books could he remember
to have read of any squire being so mounted. However, he gave Sancho leave to bring the ass,
thinking that in no great time a better mount would surely be found for him.

As they rode along in the cool of the morning, Sancho Panza spoke to his master about their
journey, and asked him to be sure not to forget his promise about the governorship of the island.

"It may even happen," answered Don Quixote, "that I may by some strange chance conquer a kingdom.
And then presently, I may be able to crown thee King."

"Why," said Sancho, "if by some such miracle as your worship speaks of, I am made a King, then
would my wife be Queen?"

"Certainly," answered Don Quixote, "who can doubt it?"

"I doubt it," replied Sancho, "for I think if it should rain kingdoms upon the face of the
earth, not one of them would sit well on my wife's head. For I must tell you, sir, she's not
worth two brass jacks to make a Queen of. No, no! countess will be quite good enough; that's
as much as she could well manage."

"Nay," said Don Quixote, "leave the matter in the hands of Providence, and be not tempted by
anything less than the title of Viceroy."

Thus talking, they came over the brow of a hill, and looking down on the plain below, Don Quixote
saw there thirty or forty windmills.

"Ha!" cried he. "Fortune directs our affairs better than we ourselves could do. Look yonder,
friend Sancho, there are at at least thirty outrageous giants whom I must now fight."

"Giants!" gasped Sancho Panza, "what giants?"

"Those whom you see over there with their long arms," answered Don Quixote. "Some of that horrible
race, I have heard, have arms near two leagues in length."

"But, sir," said Sancho, "these are no giants. They are only windmills, and the things you
think are arms are but their sails, whereby the wind drives them."

"That is but a sign," answered Don Quixote, "whereby one may see how little you know of adventures.
I tell you they are giants: and I shall fight against them all. If you are afraid, go aside
and say your prayers."

So saying, and without paying any heed to the bawlings of Sancho Panza, he put spurs to his
horse and galloped furiously at the windmills, shouting aloud, "Stand, cowards! stand your
ground, and fly not from a single Knight."

Just at this moment the wind happened to rise, causing the arms of the windmills to move.

"Base scoundrels!" roared the Knight, "though you wave as many arms as the giant Briareus,
you shall pay for your pride."

And with couched lance, and covering himself with his shield, he rushed "Rozinante" at top
speed on the nearest windmill. Round whirled the sails, and as Don Quixote's lance pierced
one of them, horse and man were sent rolling on the ground. There Sancho Panza came to help
his sorely bruised master.

"Mercy o' me!" cried Sancho, "did not I tell you they were windmills?"

"Peace, friend Sancho," answered Don Quixote. "It is the fortune of war. I know very well it
is that accursed wizard Freston, the enemy who took from me my study and my books, who has
changed these giants into windmills to take from me the honor of the victory. But in the end
I shall yet surely get the better of him."

"Amen! say I" quoth Sancho: and heaving the poor Knight on to his legs, once more he got him
seated on "Rozinante."

As they now rode along, it was a great sorrow to Don Quixote that his spear had been broken
to pieces in this battle with the windmill.

"I have read," said he to Sancho, "that a certain Spanish knight, having broken his sword in
a fight, pulled up by the roots a huge oak-tree, or at least tore down a great branch, and
with it did such wonderful deeds that he was ever after called 'The Bruiser.' I tell you this
because I intend to tear up the next oak-tree we meet, and you may think yourself fortunate
that you will see the deeds I shall perform with it."

"Heaven grant you may!" said Sancho. "But, an' it please you, sit a little more upright in
your saddle; you are all to one side. But that, mayhap, comes from your hurts?"

"I have no more to say," replied Sancho. "Yet Heaven knows I should be glad to hear your honor
complain a bit, now and then, when something ails you. For my part, I always cry out when I'm
hurt, and I am glad the rule about not complaining doesn't extend to squires."

That night they spent under the trees, from one of which Don Quixote tore down a branch, to
which he fixed the point of his spear, and in some sort that served him for a lance. Don Quixote
neither ate nor slept all the night, but passed his time, as he had learned from his books
that a knight should do, in thoughts of the Lady Dulcinea. As for Sancho Panza, he had brought
with him a big bottle of wine, and some food in his wallet, and he stuffed himself as full
as he could hold, and slept like a top.

As they rode along next day, they came to the Pass of Lapice.

"Here, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "is the spot where adventures should begin. Now may we hope
to thrust our hands, as it were, up to the very elbows in adventures. But remember this! However
sore pressed and in danger I may be when fighting with another knight, you must not offer to
draw your sword to help me. It is against the laws of chivalry for a squire to attack a knight."

"Never fear me, master," said Sancho. "I'll be sure to obey you; I have ever loved peace. But
if a knight offers to set upon me first, there is no rule forbidding me to hit him back, is there?"

"None," answered Don Quixote, "only do not help me."

"I will not," said Sancho. "Never trust me if I don't keep that commandment as well as I do
the Sabbath." In the very first, wherein he fought with a man from Biscay, whom he left lying
in a pool of blood, Don Quixote lost part of his helmet, and had the half of one of his ears
sliced off by the Biscayan's sword. The accident to the helmet was a great grief to him, and
he swore an oath that until he had taken from some other knight as good a helmet as that which
was now made useless to him, he would never again eat his food on a table-cloth.

One day as they rode along a highway between two villages Don Quixote halted and looked eagerly
at something.

"Sancho," said he, "dost thou not see yonder knight that comes riding this way on a dapple-gray
steed, with a helmet of gold on his head?"

"Not a thing can I see," answered Sancho, "but a fellow on just such another ass as mine, with
something that glitters on top of his head."

"Can you not see," asked Don Quixote, "that it is a helmet? Do you stand back, and let me deal
with him. Soon now shall I possess myself of the helmet that I need."

Now, in those far-away days, when doctors were few, if anybody needed to be bled for a fever
or any other illness (for it was then thought that "letting blood" was the cure for most illnesses),
it was the custom for the barber to bleed the sick person. For the purpose of catching the
blood that ran from a vein when it had been cut, a brass dish was carried, a dish with part
of it cut away from one side, so that it might the more easily be held close to the patient's
arm or body. A small dish like this you may sometimes still see hanging as a sign at the end
of a pole outside barbers' shops. Barbers in those days of old were called barber-surgeons,
for the reason that they bled people, as well as shaved them or cut their hair.

And the truth of the matter was this, that the man whom Don Quixote now believed to be a knight,
wearing a golden helmet, was a barber riding on his ass to bleed a sick man. And because it
was raining, he had put his brass dish on his head, in order to keep his new hat from being
spoiled.

Don Quixote did not wait to speak to the man, but, couching his lance, galloped at him as hard
as "Rozinante" could go, shouting as he rode, "Defend thyself, base wretch!"

The barber no sooner saw this terrible figure charging down on him, than, to save himself from
being run through, he flung himself on to the ground, and then jumping to his feet, ran for
his life, leaving his ass and the brass basin behind him. Then Don Quixote ordered Sancho to
pick up the helmet.

"O' my word," said Sancho, as he gave it to his master, "it is a fine basin."

Don Quixote at once put it on his head, saying, "It is a famous helmet, but the head for which
it was made must have been of great size. The worst of it is that at least one-half of it is
gone. What is the fool grinning at now?" he cried, as Sancho laughed.

"Why, master," answered Sancho, "it is a barber's basin."

"It has indeed some likeness to a basin," said Don Quixote, "but I tell you it is an enchanted
helmet of pure gold, and for the sake of a little wretched money some one has melted down the
half of it. When we come to a town where there is an armorer, I will have it altered to fit
my head. Meantime I shall wear it as it is."

As they rode along one day talking of many things, Don Quixote beheld a cloud of dust rising
right before them.

"Seest thou that cloud of dust, Sancho?" he asked. "It is raised by a great army marching this
way."

"Why, master," said Sancho, "there must be two armies there, for yonder is just such another
cloud of dust."

The knight looked, and was overjoyed, believing that two armies were about to meet and fight
in the plain.

"What are we to do, master?" asked Sancho.

"Do!" said Don Quixote, "why, what can we do but help the weaker side? Look yonder, Sancho,
that knight whom thou seest in the gilded armory with a lion crouching at the feet of a lady
painted on his shield, that is the valiant Laurcalco. That other, the giant on his right, Brandabarbaran."
And he ran over a long list of names of knights whom he believed that he saw.

Sancho listened, as dumb as a fish; but at last he gasped. "Why, master, you might as well
tell me that it snows. Never a knight, nor a giant, nor a man can I see."

"How!" answered Don Quixote, "canst thou not hear their horses neigh, and their drums beating?"

"Drums!" said Sancho. "Not I! I hear only the bleating of sheep."

"Since you are afraid," said the Knight, "stand aside, and I will go by myself to fight."

With that, he galloped down on to the plain, shouting, leaving Sancho bawling to him, "Hold,
sir! Stop! For Heaven's sake come back. As sure as I'm a sinner, they are only harmless sheep.
Come back, I say."

But Don Quixote, paying not the least heed, galloped on furiously and charged into the middle
of the sheep, spearing them right and left, trampling the living and the dead under "Rozinante's"
feet. The shepherds, finding that he took no notice of their shouts, now hurled stones at him
from their slings, and one big stone presently hit the Knight fair in his ribs and doubled
him up in the saddle.

Gasping for breath, with all speed Don Quixote got from his wallet a bottle filled with a mixture
he had made, a mixture which he firmly believed to be a certain cure for all wounds. Of this
he took a long gulp, but just at that moment another big stone hit him such a rap on the mouth
that the bottle was smashed into a thousand pieces, and half of his teeth were knocked out.

Down dropped the Knight on the ground, and the shepherds thinking that he was killed, ran away,
taking with them seven dead sheep which he had slain.

Sancho Panza found his master in a very bad way, with nearly all the teeth gone from one side
of his mouth, and with a terrible pain under his ribs.

"Ah! master," he said, "I told you they were sheep. Why would not you listen to me?"

"Sheep! Sancho. No, no! There is nothing so easy for a wizard like Freston as to change things
from one shape to the other. I will wager if you now mount your ass and ride over the hill
after them, you will find no sheep there, but the knights and squires come back to their own
shape, and the armies marching as when we first saw them."

Now, after this and many other adventures (about which, perhaps, you may some day read for
yourself), Don Quixote and Sancho Panza rode away into the mountains, for the Knight was sorely
in need of a quiet place in which to rest.

So weary were he and his squire, that one night, when they had ridden into a wood, and it chanced
that the horse and the ass stood still, both Don Quixote and Sancho Panza fell sound asleep
without even getting out of their saddles. There sat the Knight, leaning on his lance; and
Sancho, doubled over the pommel, snored as loud as if he had been in a four-post feather bed.

It happened that a wandering thief saw them as he passed.

"Now," thought he, "I want something to ride upon, for I'm tired of walking in these abominable
mountains. Here's a chance of a good ass. But how am I to get it, without waking its master?"

Very quietly he cut four long sticks. One after the other he placed these under each side of
Sancho's saddle; then loosening the girths, he gradually raised the sticks till the saddle
was clear of the animal's back.

Gently, in the moonlight, he led the tired ass away, and Sancho, undisturbed, snored on.

When it was broad daylight, the squire awoke, and without opening his eyes, stretched himself.
Down fell the sticks; down with a terrible bump fell Sancho.

"Body o' me!" he yelled, "where is my ass?" And with many tears he searched high and low, but
no ass was then to be found, nor for many months afterwards. And how at last Sancho got back
the ass you must read for yourself in the History of Don Quixote. For yourself, too, you must
read of Don Quixote's adventures in the mountains; how he there did penance; and of many other
things, till at last the Curate and the Barber of La Mancha took him home in a cart which the
Knight believed to be an enchanted chariot.

V

HOW DON QUIXOTE SAW DULCINEA

Now a third time did Don Quixote set off on his search for adventures, and as he and Sancho
Panza rode again away from their village, it seemed to Don Quixote that certainly it was his
duty as a knight-errant to visit the Mistress of his Heart, the beautiful Dulcinea.

It was midnight when they reached Toboso, and the whole town was still, everybody in bed and
asleep.

"Lead me to her palace, Sancho," said Don Quixote.

"Palace?" cried Sancho, "What palace do you mean? Body o' me! When last I saw her, she lived
in a little cottage in a blind alley. And even if it were a palace, we can't go and thunder
at the door at this time o' night."

"When we find it, I will tell thee what to do. But, here! What is this?" said the Knight, riding
up to a huge building, and knocking at the door. "This indeed, without doubt, must be her palace."

But it was only the great Church of Toboso. Hunt as he would, he found no Dulcinea's palace,
and as morning began to break, Sancho persuaded him to come and rest in a grove of trees two
miles outside the town. From there Sancho was again sent to look for Dulcinea, bearing many
messages from his sorrowful master.

"Cheer up, sir," said Sancho. "I'll be back in a trice. Don't be cast down. Faint heart never
won fair lady."

And Sancho rode away, leaving the Knight sitting on his horse, very full of melancholy. But
he had not ridden far, when, turning round and finding that his master was no longer in sight,
the squire dismounted, and lying down under a shady tree, began to think the matter over.

"Friend Sancho," said he to himself, "what's this you are doing?"

"Why, hunting for a Princess, who, my master says, is the Sun of Beauty, and all sorts of other
fine things, and who lives in a King's palace, or great castle, somewhere or other."

"And how are you going to find her?"

"Why, it's like looking for a needle in a bundle of hay, to look for Dulcinea all over Toboso.
My master's mad, there's no doubt of that; and perhaps I'm not very much better, for they say
birds of a feather flock together. But if he's so mad as to mistake windmills for giants, and
flocks of sheep for armies, why, it shouldn't be so very hard to make him believe that the
first country lass I meet is the Lady Dulcinea. If he won't believe, I'll swear it, and stand
to it, so that he'll think some of those wicked wizards of his have played another trick on
him, and have changed her into some other shape just to spite him."

Having thus settled his plans, Sancho lay there till the evening, so that his master might
think that all the day had been spent in going to and from Toboso, and in looking for Dulcinea.

As luck would have it, just as he mounted his ass to ride back to Don Quixote, he spied coming
that way three country lasses mounted on asses. As soon as Sancho saw the girls, he made haste
to get to his master.

"What news, Sancho?" asked the Knight. "Has your fortune been good?"

"Ay, marry has it, sir," answered Sancho, "you have no more to do but to clap spurs to 'Rozinante'
and get into the open fields, and you'll meet my Lady Dulcinea del Toboso with two of her damsels
coming to see you."

"Blessed Heaven!" cried the Knight. "What do you say, my dear Sancho? Is it possible?"

"Possible!" said Sancho. "Why should I play a trick on you? Come, sir, and you will see her
presently, all dressed up and decked with jewels. Her damsels and she are all covered with
diamonds, and rubies, and cloth of gold. And what is more, they are riding three flea-bitten
gambling hags, the like of which won't be seen again."

"Ambling nags, thou meanest, Sancho," said Don Quixote.

"Well, well, master, gambling hags or ambling nags, it's all one and the same thing. Any way,
I'm sure I never set eyes on more beautiful ladies than those that sit upon them."

"Let us be moving then, Sancho. And as a reward for your good news, I promise you the very
best things I get in our next adventure. And if that is not enough, then I will give you the
three colts that I have at home in La Mancha."

"Thank you for the colts," said Sancho. "As for the other things, I'm not sure that they will
be worth so very much."

They were now out of the wood, and could see the three country lasses at a little distance.

Don Quixote looked long towards Toboso, but seeing no one anywhere but these girls, he was
much troubled in his mind, and asked Sancho if he were sure that the Princess had left the city.

"Left the city!" cried Sancho. "Why where are your eyes, sir? In the name of wonder, do you
not see her and her maidens coming towards us now, as bright as the sun at midday?"

"I see nothing, Sancho, but three country wenches riding on asses."

"Now Heaven help me," cried Sancho, "is it possible that you can mistake three what do you
call 'ems--ambling nags as white as snow, for three asses! Pull my beard out by the roots if
it is not so."

"Believe me, Sancho, they are asses."

"Come, sir," answered Sancho, "do but clear your eyes, and go and speak to the Mistress of
your Heart, for she is near you now."

So saying, Sancho hurried up to one of the girls, and, jumping off his ass, fell on his knees
before her, gabbling a lot of nonsense.

Don Quixote followed, and also knelt down, gazing with doubting and sorrowful eyes on the creature
that Sancho had told him was the beautiful Dulcinea. He was lost in wonder, for she was a flat-nosed,
blubber-cheeked, bouncing country girl, and Don Quixote could not utter a word.

"Come! get out of the way," screamed the girl, "and let us go about our business. We're in
a hurry."

"Rise, Sancho," said Don Quixote when he heard the girl's voice. "I am now convinced that misfortune
has not yet finished with me. O most beautiful lady! a spiteful enchanter puts mists before
my eyes, and hides from me your loveliness."

"My grandmother take him!" cried the girl. "Listen to his gibberish! Get out of the way, and
let us alone." And kicking her donkey in the ribs, she galloped away with her friends. Don
Quixote followed them long with his eyes.

"O the spite of those wicked enchanters!" he sighed, "to turn my beautiful Dulcinea into so
vile a shape as that: to take from her the sweet and delicate scent of fragrant flowers, and
give to her what she has. For, to tell the truth, Sancho, she gave me such a whiff of raw onions
that it was like to upset me altogether."

"O the vile and evil-minded enchanters!" cried Sancho. "Oh that I might see the lot of you
threaded on one string, and hung up in the smoke like so many herrings." And Sancho turned
away to hide his laughter.

Don Quixote rode on, very sad, and letting "Rozinante" go where he pleased.

VI

HOW DON QUIXOTE FOUGHT WITH A LION; AND HOW HE DEFEATED THE MOORS

As Don Quixote and Sancho Panza went along, they were overtaken by a gentleman in a fine green
coat, who rode a very good mare. This gentleman stared very hard at Don Quixote, and the two
began to speak together about knight-errantry, and were so interested in what they were saying,
that Sancho took the opportunity of riding over to ask for a little milk from some shepherds,
who were milking their ewes near at hand.

While he was thus away from his master, a wagon, on top of which fluttered little yellow and
red flags, came along the road towards them. Don Quixote at once imagined this to be some new
adventure, and he called to Sancho for his helmet. At the moment, Sancho was bargaining with
the shepherds for some curds. Hearing his master call, he had not time to wait till the shepherds
could give him a bowl in which to carry them, and not wishing to lose his bargain (for he had
paid the shepherds), he poured the curds into the Knight's helmet, and galloped off to see
what his master wanted.

"Give me my helmet," said Don Quixote, "for if I know anything of my business, here is an adventure
for which I must be ready."

The gentleman in green, hearing what Don Quixote said, looked everywhere, but he could see
nothing except the wagon coming towards them, and as that had on it the King of Spain's colors,
he thought that no doubt it was one of his Majesty's treasure-vans. He said as much to Don
Quixote, but the Knight answered: "Sir, I cannot tell when, or where, or in what shape, my
enemies will attack me. It is always wise to be ready. Fore-warned is fore-armed. Give me my
helmet, Sancho!"

Snatching it out of Sancho's unwilling hands, he clapped it on his head without looking into it.

"What is this, Sancho?" he cried, as the whey ran down his face. "What is the matter with me?
Is my brain melting, or am I breaking out in a cold sweat? If I am, it is not from fear. This
must be a dreadful adventure that is coming. Quick. Sancho! give me something to wipe away
the torrent of sweat, for I am almost blinded."

Without a word, Sancho handed to his master a cloth. Don Quixote dried himself, and then took
off his helmet to see what it was that felt so cold on his head.

"What is this white stuff?" said he, putting some of the curds to his nose. "Sancho, you vile
traitor, you have been putting curds in my helmet!"

"Curds!--I?" cried Sancho. "Nay, the devil must have put them there. Would I dare to make such
a mess in your helmet, sir? It must have been one of those vile enchanters. Where could I get
curds? I would sooner put them in my stomach than in your helmet."

"Well, that's true, I dare say," said Don Quixote. "There's something in that."

Then again he put on the helmet, and made ready for the adventure.

"Now come what may, I dare meet it," he cried.

The wagon had now come near to them. On top was seated a man, and the driver rode one of the
mules that drew it. Don Quixote rode up.

"Whither go ye, my friends?" said he. "What wagon is this, and what have you in it? What is
the meaning of the flags?"

"The wagon is mine," said the driver, "and I have in it a lion that is being sent to the King,
and the flags are flying to let the people know that it is the King's property."

"A lion!" cried Don Quixote, "Is it a large one?"

"The biggest I ever saw," said the man on top of the wagon. "I am the keeper, and I have had
charge of many lions, but I never saw one so large as this. Pray get out of the way, sir, for
we must hurry on to our stopping-place. It is already past his feeding-time; he is beginning
to get hungry, and they are always savage when they are hungry."

"What!" cried Don Quixote, "lion whelps against me! I'll let those gentlemen know who send
lions this way, that I am not to be scared by any of their lions. So, Mr. Keeper, just jump
down and open his cage, and let him out. In spite of all the enchanters in the world that have
sent him to try me, I'll let the animal see who Don Quixote de la Mancha is."

Up ran Sancho to the gentleman in green.

"O good, dear sir," he cried, "don't let my master get at the lion, or we shall all be torn
to pieces."

"Why," said the gentleman, "is your master so mad that you fear he'll set upon such a dangerous
brute."

"Oh no, sir, he's not mad; he's only rash, very, very rash," cried Sancho.

"Well," said the gentleman, "I'll see to it," and up he went to Don Quixote, who was trying
to get the keeper to open the cage.

"Sir," said he, "knight-errants ought not to engage in adventures from which there is no hope
of coming off in safety. That is more like madness than courage. Besides, this is the King's
wagon; it will never do to stop that. And after all, the lion has not been sent against you;
it is a present to the King."

"Pray, sir," cried Don Quixote, "will you attend to your own business? This is mine, and I
know best whether this lion has been sent against me or not. Now you, sir," he cried to the
keeper, "either open that cage at once, or I'll pin you to your wagon with my spear."

"For mercy's sake, sir," cried the driver, "do but let me take my mules out of harm's way before
the lion gets out. My cart and my mules are all I have in the world, and I shall be ruined
if harm comes to them."

"Take them out quickly, then," said Don Quixote, "and take them where you please."

On this the driver made all the haste he could to unharness his mules, while the keeper called
aloud, "Take notice, everybody, that it is against my will that I am forced to let loose the
lion, and that this gentleman here is to blame for all the damage that will be done. Get out
of the way, everybody: look out for yourselves."

Once more the gentleman in green tried to persuade Don Quixote not to be so foolish, but the
Knight only said, "I know very well what I am doing. If you are afraid, and do not care to
see the fight, just put spurs to your mare and take yourself where you think you will be safe."

Sancho now hurried up, and with tears in his eyes begged his master not to put himself in so
great danger, but Don Quixote only said, "Take yourself away, Sancho, and leave me alone. If
I am killed, go, as I have so often told you, to the beautiful Dulcinea, and tell her--you
know what to tell her."

The gentleman in green, finding that words were thrown away on Don Quixote, now quickly followed
the driver, who had hastily taken his mules as far away as he could beyond the brow of the
hill. Sancho hurried after them at the top speed of his ass, kicking him in the ribs all the
while to make him go even faster, and loudly bewailing his master's coming death. The keeper
made one more attempt to turn Don Quixote from his folly, but again finding it useless, very
unwillingly opened the cage door.

Meantime the Knight had been thinking whether it would be best to fight the lion on foot or
on horseback, and he had made up his mind to fight on foot, for the reason that "Rozinante"
would probably be too much afraid to face the lion. So he got off his horse, drew his sword,
and holding his shield in front of him, marched slowly up to the cage. The keeper, having thrown
the door wide open, now quickly got himself out of harm's way.

The lion, seeing the cage open, and Don Quixote standing in front, turned round and stretched
out his great paws. Then he opened his enormous mouth, and, letting out a tongue as long as
a man's arm, licked the dust off his face. Now rising to his feet, he thrust his head out of
the door and glared around with eyes like burning coals.

It was a sight to make any man afraid; but Don Quixote calmly waited for the animal to jump
out and come within reach of his sword.

The lion looked at him for a moment with its great yellow eyes--then, slowly turning, it strolled
to the back of the cage, gave a long, weary yawn, and lay quietly down.

"Force him to come out," cried Don Quixote to the keeper, "beat him."

"Not I," said the man. "I dare not for my life. He would tear me to pieces. And let me advise
you, sir, to be content with your day's work. I beseech you, go no further. You have shown
how brave you are. No man can be expected to do more than challenge his enemy and wait ready
for him. If he does not come, the fault and the disgrace are his."

"'Tis true," said the Knight. "Shut the door, my friend, and give me the best certificate you
can of what you have seen me do; how you opened the door, and how I waited for the lion to
come out, and how he turned tail and lay down. I am obliged to do no more."

So saying, Don Quixote put on the end of his spear the cloth with which he had wiped the curds
from his face, and began to wave to the others to come back.

"I'll be hanged," cried Sancho when he saw this signal, "if my master has not killed the lion."
And they all hurried up to the wagon where the keeper gave them a long account of what had
happened, adding, that when he got to court he would tell the King of Don Quixote's bravery.

"If his Majesty should happen to ask who did this thing, tell him," said Don Quixote, "that
it was the Knight of the Lions, for that is the name by which I shall now call myself."

Sancho and his master now rode with the gentleman in green to his house, where they stopped
some days, to the great contentment of Sancho. And of the wedding at which they were present,
of the feast where Sancho so greatly enjoyed himself, as well as of other matters, you must
read for yourself.

When the Knight and his squire again began their travels, it chanced that they stopped one
night at an inn. To this inn, while Don Quixote was outside, waiting for supper, there came
a man, all dressed in chamois leather, and wearing over his left eye, and part of his face,
a green patch.

"Have you any lodgings, landlord?" he cried in a loud voice; "for here comes the fortune-telling
ape, and the great puppet-show of Melisendra's Deliverance."

"Why, bless me!" cried the innkeeper, "if here isn't Master Peter. Now we shall have a merry
night of it. You are welcome, with all my heart. Where is the ape, Peter?"

"Coming presently," said Master Peter. "I only came on before to see if lodgings were to be had."

"Lodgings!" cried the landlord. "Why, I'd turn out the Duke of Alva himself rather than you
should want room. Bring on the monkey and the show, for I have guests in the inn to-night who
will pay well to see the performance."

"That's good news," said Peter, going off to hurry up his cart.

"Who is this Peter?" asked Don Quixote.

"Why, sir," answered the landlord, "he has been going about the country this long time with
his play of Melisendra and Don Gayferos, one of the very best shows that ever was seen. Then
he has the cleverest ape in the world. You have only to ask it a question and it will jump
on its master's shoulder and whisper the answer in his ear, and then Master Peter will tell
you what it says. It's true, he isn't always right, but he so often hits the nail on the head
that we sometimes think Satan is in him."

Don Quixote no sooner saw the ape, than he marched up to it, and asked a question.

"Ah!" said Master Peter, "the animal can't tell what is going to happen; only what has already
happened."

"I wouldn't give a brass centesimo," cried Sancho, "to know what is past. Who can tell that
better than myself? Tell me what my wife Teresa is doing at home just now."

Master Peter tapped his shoulder: the ape at once sprang on to it, and putting its head at
his ear, began to chatter--as apes do--for a minute. Then it skipped down again, and immediately
Master Peter ran to Don Quixote and fell on his knees before him.

"O glorious restorer of knight-errantry!" he cried, "who can say enough in praise of the great
Don Quixote de la Mancha, the righter of wrongs, the comfort of the afflicted and unhappy?"

Don Quixote was amazed at these words, for he was certain that he was unknown to any one at
the inn. He did not guess that Master Peter was a clever rogue, who, before giving a performance,
always made it his business to find out about those who were likely to be looking on.

As for Sancho, he quaked with fear.

"And thou, honest Sancho," went on Master Peter, "the best squire to the best knight in the
world, be not unhappy about your wife. She is well, and at this moment is dressing flax. By
the same token, she has at her left hand, to cheer her, a broken-mouthed jug of wine."

"That's like enough," said Sancho.

"Well," cried Don Quixote, "if I had not seen it with my own eyes, nothing should have made
me believe that apes have the gift of second sight. I am in very truth the Don Quixote de la
Mancha that this wonderful animal has told you about."

But he was not quite pleased at the idea of the ape having such powers, and taking Sancho aside
he spoke to him seriously on the subject.

While they spoke, the showman came to tell them that the puppet-show was now ready to begin,
and Don Quixote and Sancho went into the room where it stood, with candles burning all round
it. Master Peter got inside in order to move the puppets, and a boy standing in front explained
what was going on.

The story that was acted by the puppets was that of a certain Don Gayferos, who rescued his
wife Melisendra from captivity by the Moors in the city of Saragossa. Melisendra was imprisoned
in the castle, and the story goes that Don Gayferos, when riding past, in his search, spied
her on the balcony. Melisendra, with the help of a rope, lets herself down to her husband,
mounts behind him, and the two gallop away from the city. But Melisendra's flight has been
noticed, and the city bells ring an alarm. The Moors rush out like angry wasps, start in pursuit,
and the capture and death of Don Gayferos and Melisendra seem certain.

Don Quixote listened and looked with growing excitement and anger, but when he saw the Moors
gallop in pursuit and about to close on Don Gayferos and Melisendra, he could keep quiet no
longer. Starting up, "It shall never be said," cried he, "that in my presence I suffered such
a wrong to be done to so famous a knight as Don Gayferos. Stop your unjust pursuit, ye base
rascals! Stop! or prepare to meet me in battle."

Then, drawing his sword, with one spring he fell with fury on the Moors, hacking some in pieces,
beheading others, and sending the rest flying into every corner. And had not Master Peter ducked
and squatted down on the ground behind part of the show, Don Quixote would certainly have chopped
off his head also.

"Hold! hold, sir!" cried Master Peter, "for mercy's sake, hold! These are not real Moors. You
will ruin me if you destroy my show."

But Don Quixote paid not the slightest heed. He went on slashing and hacking till the whole
show was a wreck. Everybody ran to get out of harm's way, and the ape scampered, chattering,
on to the roof of the house. Sancho himself quaked with fear, for he had never before seen
his master in such a fury.

All the puppet Moors being now cut to pieces, Don Quixote became calmer, saying aloud, "How
miserable had been the fate of poor Don Gayferos and Melisendra his wife if I had not been
in time to save them from those infidel Moors! Long live knight-errantry!"

"Ay, ay," moaned Master Peter in a doleful voice, "it may live long enough. As for me, I may
as well die, for I am a ruined man and a beggar now."

Sancho Panza took pity on the showman.

"Come, come! Master Peter," said he, "don't cry. Don't be cast down. My master will pay you
when he comes to know that he has done you an injury."

"Truly," said Peter, "if his honor will pay for my puppets.'ll ask no more."

"How!" cried Don Quixote. "I do not see that I have injured you, good Master Peter."

"Not injured me!" cried Master Peter. "Do but look at those figures lying there, all hacked
to bits."

"Well," said Don Quixote, "now I know for certain a truth I have suspected before, that those
accursed enchanters do nothing but put before my eyes things as they are, and then presently
after change them as they please. Really and truly gentlemen, I vow and protest that all that
was acted here seemed to me to be real. I could not contain my fury, and I acted as I thought
was my duty. But if Master Peter will tell me the value of the figures, I will pay for them all."

"Heaven bless your worship!" whined Master Peter. But had Don Quixote known that this same
Master Peter was the very man who stole Sancho Panza's ass, perhaps he might have paid him
in another way.

They had ridden no great way when they happened upon some young people who had gaily dressed
themselves as shepherds and shepherdesses, and were having a picnic in the woods. These people
invited Don Quixote and Sancho to join their feast.

When they had eaten and drunk, the Knight rose, and said that there was no sin worse than that
of ingratitude, and that to show how grateful he was for the kindness that had been shown to
him and to Sancho, he had only one means in his power.

"Therefore," said he, "I will maintain for two whole days, in the middle of this high road
leading to Saragossa, that these ladies here, disguised as shepherdesses, are the most beautiful
damsels in the world, except only the peerless Dulcinea del Toboso, the mistress of my heart."

So, mounting "Rozinante" he rode into the middle of the highway and there took his stand, ready
to challenge all comers. He had sat there no long time when there appeared on the road coming
towards him a number of riders, some with spears in their hands, all riding very fast and close
together. In front of them thundered a drove of wild bulls, bellowing and tossing their horns.
At once all the shepherds and the shepherdesses ran behind trees, but Don Quixote sat bravely
where he was.

When the horsemen came near, "Get out of the way!" bawled one of them. "Stand clear, or these
bulls will have you in pieces in no time."

"Halt, scoundrels!" roared the Knight. "What are bulls to Don Quixote de la Mancha, if they
were the fiercest that ever lived? Stop, hangdogs!"

But the herdsmen had no time to answer, nor Don Quixote to get out of the way had he wanted
to do so, for before any one knew what was happening, the bulls had run right over him and
"Rozinante," leaving them and Sancho and "Dapple," his ass, stunned and bruised, rolling in
the dust.

As soon as Don Quixote came to his senses he got up in great haste, stumbling here and falling
there, and began to run after the herd.

"Stop, you scoundrels!" he bawled. "Stop! It is a single knight that defies you."

But no one took the least notice of him, and he sat sadly down on the road, waiting till Sancho
brought "Rozinante" to him. Then master and man went on their way, Don Quixote sore ashamed
of his defeat, hurt as much in mind as in body.

That evening they dismounted at the door of an inn, and put up "Rozinante" and "Dapple" in
the stable. Sancho asked the landlord what he could give them for supper.

"Why," said the man, "you may have anything you choose to call for. The inn can provide fowls
of the air, birds of the earth, and fishes of the sea."

"There's no need for all that," said Sancho. "If you roast a couple of chickens it will be
enough, for my master eats but little, and for myself, I have no great appetite."

"Chickens?" said the host. "I am sorry I have no chickens just now. The hawks have killed them
all."

"Well, then, roast us a pullet, if it be tender."

"A pullet? Well, now, that is unlucky. I sent away fifty to the market only yesterday. But,
putting pullets aside, ask for anything you like."

"Why, then," said Sancho, pondering, "let us have some veal, or a bit of kid."

"Sorry sir, we are just out of veal and kid also. Next week we shall have enough and to spare."

"That helps us nicely," said Sancho. "But at any rate, let us have some eggs and bacon."

"Eggs!" cried the landlord. "Now didn't I tell him I had no hens or pullets, and how then can
I have eggs? No, no! Ask for anything you please in the way of dainties, but don't ask for hens."

"Body o' me!" said Sancho, "let us have something. Tell me what you have, and have done."

"Well, what I really and truly have is a pair of cow-heels that look like calves'-feet, or
a pair of calves'-feet that look like cow-heels. You can have that and some bacon."

"They are mine," cried Sancho. "I don't care whether they are feet or heels."

And as Don Quixote had supper with some other guests who carried with them their own cook and
their own larder, Sancho and the landlord supped well on the cow-heels.

Some days after this, the Knight and his squire reached Barcelona. Neither of them had ever
before been near the sea, and the galleys that they saw in the distance being rowed about in
the bay sorely puzzled Sancho, who thought that the oars were their legs, and that they must
be some strange kind of beast.

Now, one morning, when Don Quixote rode out, fully armed as usual, to take the air on the seashore,
he saw a knight riding towards him, armed like himself, and having a bright moon painted on
his shield. As soon as this knight came within hearing he halted, and in a loud voice called out:

"Illustrious Don Quixote de la Mancha, I am the Knight of the White Moon, of whose doings you
may have heard. I am come to fight with you and to make you own that the Lady of my Heart,
whoever she may be, is more beautiful by far than the Lady Dulcinea del Toboso. Which truth,
if you will confess, I will not slay you. And if we fight, and I should conquer you, then I
ask no more than that you shall go to your own home, and for the space of one year give up
carrying arms or searching for adventures. But if you should conquer me, then my head shall
be at your disposal, my horse and arms shall be your spoils, and the fame of my deeds shall
be yours. Consider what I say, and let your answer be quick."

Don Quixote was amazed at hearing these words.

"Knight of the White Moon," said he very solemnly, "the fame of whose doings has not yet come
to my ears, I dare swear that thou hast never seen the beautiful Dulcinea, for hadst thou ever
viewed her, thou wouldst have been careful not to make this challenge. The sight of her would
have made thee know that there never has been, nor can be, beauty to match hers. And therefore,
without giving thee the lie, I only tell thee thou art mistaken. I accept your challenge, on
your conditions, and at once, except that I am content with the fame of my own deeds, and want
not yours. Choose then whichever side of the field you please, and let us set to."

The two knights then turned their horses to take ground for their charge, but at this moment
up rode, with some friends, the Governor of the city of Barcelona, who knew Don Quixote, and
who fancied that perhaps this was some new trick being played on him. The Governor, seeing
both knights ready to turn for their charge, asked the Knight of the White Moon what was the
cause of the combat, and having heard his answer, could not believe that the affair was not
a joke, and so stood aside.

Instantly the two knights charged at top speed. But the horse of the Knight of the White Moon
was by far the bigger and heavier and faster, and he came with such a shock into poor old "Rozinante"
that Don Quixote and his horse were hurled to the ground with terrible force, and lay stunned
and helpless. In a moment the Knight of the White Moon was off his horse and holding his spear
at Don Quixote's throat.

"Yield, Sir Knight!" he cried, "or you are a dead man."

Don Quixote, sorely hurt, but with steadfast look, gasped in a faint voice:

"I do not yield. Dulcinea del Toboso is the most beautiful woman in the whole world. Press
on with your spear, Sir Knight, and kill me."

"Nay," said the Knight of the White Moon. "That will I not do. I am content if the great Don
Quixote return to his home for a year, as we agreed before we fought."

And Don Quixote answered very faintly that as nothing was asked of him to the hurt of Dulcinea,
he would carry out all the rest faithfully and truly. The Knight of the White Moon then galloped
away toward the city, where one of the Governor's friends followed him, in order to find out
who he was. The victorious knight was Samson Carrasco, who, some months before, had fought
with and had been beaten by Don Quixote. And he explained to the Governor's friend that all
he wanted in fighting was, not to harm Don Quixote, but to make him promise to go home, and
stop there for a year, by which time he hoped that his madness about knight-errantry might
be cured.

They raised Don Quixote and took off his helmet. His face was very pale, and he was covered
with a cold sweat. "Rozinante" was in as bad plight as his master, and lay where he had fallen.
Sancho, in great grief, could speak no word, and knew not what to do; to him it was all as
a bad dream.

Don Quixote was carried on a stretcher to the town, where for a week he lay in bed without
ever raising his head, stricken to the soul by the disgrace of his defeat.

Sancho tried to comfort him.

"Pluck up your heart and be of good cheer, sir," he cried, "and thank Heaven you have broken
no bones. They that give must take. Let us go home and give up looking for adventures."

"After all, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "it is only for a year. After that I can begin again,
and perhaps then I may be able to make thee an Earl."

"Heaven grant it" said Sancho.

So when the Knight was once more able to move they set out for home, Don Quixote riding "Rozinante"
Sancho walking, for "Dapple" carried the armor.

But all the way Don Quixote did not recover from his melancholy, and when at last they reached
his village:

"Help me to bed," he said, "for I think that I am not very well."

He was put to bed, and carefully nursed. But a fever had taken hold of him, and for many days
Sancho Panza never left his master's bedside. On the sixth day, the doctor told him he was
in great danger. Don Quixote listened very calmly, and then asked that he might be left by
himself for a little--he had a mind to sleep. His niece and Sancho left the room weeping bitterly,
and Don Quixote fell into a deep sleep.

When he awoke, with a firm voice he cried:

"Blessed be God! My mind is is now clear, and the clouds have rolled away which those detestable
books of knight-errantry cast over me. Now can I see their nonsense and deceit. I am at the
point of death, and I would meet it so that I may not leave behind me the character of a madman.
Send for the lawyer, that I may make my will."

Excepting only a small sum of money which he gave to Sancho Panza, he left all to his niece.

Thereafter he fell back in bed, and lay unconscious and without movement till the third day,
when death very gently took him.

So died Don Quixote de la Mancha, a good man and a brave gentleman to the end.

A voyage in those days was not often a pleasant thing, for ships then were very bluff-bowed
and slow-sailing, and, for a long voyage, very ill-provided with food. There were no tinned
meats two hundred years ago, no luxuries for use even in the cabin. Sailors lived chiefly on
salt junk, as hard as leather, on biscuit that was generally as much weevil as biscuit, and
the water that they drank was evil-smelling and bad when it had been long in the ship's casks.

So, when a man said good-by to his friends and sailed away into the unknown, generally very
many years passed before he came back--if ever he came back at all. For the dangers of the
seas were then far greater than they now are, and if a ship was not wrecked some dark night
on an unknown island or uncharted reef, there was always the probability of meeting a pirate
vessel and of having to fight for life and liberty. Steam has nowadays nearly done away with
pirates, except on the China coast and in a few other out-of-the-way places. But things were
different long ago, before steamers were invented; and sailors then, when they came home, had
many very surprising things to tell their friends, many astonishing adventures to speak of,
among the strange peoples that they said they had met in far-off lands. One man, who saw more
wonderful things than any one else, was named Lemuel Gulliver, and I will try to tell you a
little about one of his voyages.

Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire, and when he was only fourteen years old he was sent to
Emanuel College, Cambridge. There he remained till he was seventeen, but his father had not
money enough to keep him any longer at the University. So, as was then the custom for those
who meant to become doctors, he was bound apprentice to a surgeon in London, under whom he
studied for four years. But all the time, as often as his father sent him money, he spent some
of it in learning navigation (which means the art of finding your way across the sea, far from
land). He had always had a great longing to travel, and he thought that a knowledge of navigation
would be of use to him if he should happen to go a voyage.

After leaving London, he went to Germany, and there studied medicine for some years, with the
view of being appointed surgeon of a ship. And by the help of his late master in London, such
a post he did get on board the "Swallow" on which vessel he made several voyages. But tiring
of this, he settled in London, and, having married, began practise as a doctor.

He did not, however, make much money at that, and so for six years he again went to sea as
a surgeon, sailing both to the East and to the West Indies.

Again tiring of the sea, he once more settled on shore, this time at Wapping, because in that
place there are always many sailors, and he hoped to make money by doctoring them.

But this turned out badly, and on May 4, 1699, he sailed from Bristol for the South Seas as
surgeon of a ship named the "Antelope."

II

GULLIVER IS WRECKED ON THE COAST OF LILLIPUT

At first, everything went well, but after leaving the South Seas, when steering for the East
Indies, the ship was driven by a great storm far to the south. The gale lasted so long that
twelve of the crew died from the effects of the hard work and the bad food, and all the others
were worn out and weak. On a sailing ship, when the weather is very heavy, all hands have to
be constantly on deck, and there is little rest for the men. Perhaps a sail, one of the few
that can still be carried in such a gale, may be blown to ribbons by the furious wind, and
a new one has to be bent on.

The night, perhaps, is dark, the tattered canvas is thrashing with a noise like thunder, the
ship burying her decks under angry black seas every few minutes. The men's hands are numb with
the cold and the wet, and the hard, dangerous work aloft. There is no chance of going below
when their job is done, to "turn in" between warm, dry blankets in a snug berth. Possibly even
those who belong to the "watch below" may have to remain on deck. Or, if they have the good
fortune to be allowed to go below, they may no sooner have dropped off asleep (rolled round
in blankets which perhaps have been wet ever since the gale began) than there is a thump, thump
overhead, and one of the watch on deck bellows down the forecastle-hatch, "All hands shorten
sail." And out they must tumble again, once more to battle with the hungry, roaring seas and
the raging wind. So, when there has been a long spell of bad weather, it is no wonder that
the men are worn out. And when, as was the case with Gulliver's ship, the food also is bad,
it is easy to understand why so many of the crew had died.

It was on the 5th of November, the beginning of summer in latitudes south of the equator. The
storm had not yet cleared off, and the weather was very thick, the wind coming in furious squalls
that drove the ship along at great speed, when suddenly from the lookout man came a wild cry--"Breakers
ahead!"

But so close had the vessel come to the rocks before they were seen through the thick driving
spray, that immediately, with, a heavy plunge, she crashed into the reef, and split her bows.

Gulliver and six of the crew lowered a boat and got clear of the wreck and of the breakers.
But the men were so weak from overwork that they could not handle the boat in such a sea, and
very soon, during a fierce squall, she sank. What became of the men Gulliver never knew, for
he saw none of them again. Probably they were drowned at once, for they were too weak to keep
long afloat in a sea breaking so heavily.

And indeed, Gulliver himself was like to have been lost. He swam till no strength or feeling
was left in his arms and legs, swam bravely, his breath coming in great sobs, his eyes blinded
with the salt seas that broke over his head. Still he struggled on, utterly spent, until at
last, in a part where the wind seemed to have less force, and the seas swept over him less
furiously, on letting down his legs he found that he was within his depth. But the shore shelved
so gradually that for nearly a mile he had to wade wearily through shallow water, till, fainting
almost with fatigue, he reached dry land.

By this time darkness was coming on, and there were no signs of houses or of people. He staggered
forward but a little distance, and then, on the short, soft turf, sank down exhausted and slept.

When he woke, the sun was shining, and he tried to rise; but not by any means could he stir
hand or foot. Gulliver had fallen asleep lying on his back, and now he found that his arms
and legs were tightly fastened to the ground. Across his body were numbers of thin but strong
cords, and even his hair, which was very long, was pegged down so securely that he could not
turn his head.

All round about him there was a confused sound of voices, but he could see nothing except the
sky, and the sun shone so hot and fierce into his eyes that he could scarcely keep them open.

Soon he felt something come gently up his left leg, and forward on to his breast almost to
his chin. Looking down as much as possible, he saw standing there a very little man, not more
than six inches high, armed with a bow and arrows.

Then many more small men began to swarm over him. Gulliver let out such a roar of wonder and
fright that they all turned and ran, many of them getting bad falls in their hurry to get out
of danger. But very quickly the little people came back again.

This time, with a great struggle Gulliver managed to break the cords that fastened his left
arm, and at the same time, by a violent wrench that hurt him dreadfully, he slightly loosened
the strings that fastened his hair, so that he was able to turn his head a little to one side.
But the little men were too quick for him, and got out of reach before he could catch any of them.

Then he heard a great shouting, followed by a shrill little voice that called sharply, "Tolgo
phonac," and immediately, arrows like needles were shot into his hand, and another volley struck
him in the face. Poor Gulliver covered his face with his hand, and lay groaning with pain.

Again he struggled to get loose. But the harder he fought for freedom, the more the little
men shot arrows into him, and some of them even tried to run their spears into his sides.

When he found that the more he struggled the more he was hurt, Gulliver lay still, thinking
to himself that at night at least, now that his left hand was free, he could easily get rid
of the rest of his bonds. As soon as the little people saw that he struggled no more, they
ceased shooting at him; but he knew from the increasing sound of voices that more and more
of the little soldiers were coming round him.

Soon, a few yards from him, on the right, he heard a continued sound of hammering, and on turning
his head to that side as far as the strings would let him, he saw that a small wooden stage
was being built. On to this, when it was finished, there climbed by ladders four men, and one
of them (who seemed to be a very important person, for a little page boy attended to hold up
his train) immediately gave an order. At once about fifty of the soldiers ran forward and cut
the strings that tied Gulliver's hair on the left side, so that he could turn his head easily
to the right.

Then the person began to make a long speech, not one word of which could Gulliver understand,
but it seemed to him that sometimes the little man threatened, and sometimes made offers of
kindness.

As well as he could, Gulliver made signs that he submitted. Then, feeling by this time faint
with hunger, he pointed with his fingers many times to his mouth, to show that he wanted something
to eat.

They understood him very well. Several ladders were put against Gulliver's sides, and about
a hundred little people climbed up and carried to his mouth all kinds of bread and meat. There
were things shaped like legs, and shoulders, and saddles of mutton. Very good they were, Gulliver
thought, but very small, no bigger than a lark's wing; and the loaves of bread were about the
size of bullets, so that he could take several at a mouthful. The people wondered greatly at
the amount that he ate.

When he signed that he was thirsty, they slung up on to his body two of their biggest casks
of wine, and having rolled them forward to his hand they knocked out the heads of the casks.
Gulliver drank them both off at a draught, and asked for more, for they held only about a small
tumblerful each. But there was no more to be had.

As the small people walked to and fro over his body, Gulliver was sorely tempted to seize forty
or fifty of them and dash them on the ground, and then to make a further struggle for liberty.
But the pain he had already suffered from their arrows made him think better of it, and he
wisely lay quiet.

Soon another small man, who from his brilliant uniform seemed to be an officer of very high
rank, marched with some others on to Gulliver's chest and held up to his eyes a paper which
Gulliver understood to be an order from the King of the country. The officer made a long speech,
often pointing towards something a long way off, and (as Gulliver afterwards learned) told
him that he was to be taken as a prisoner to the city, the capital of the country.

Gulliver asked, by signs, that his bonds might be loosed. The officer shook his head and refused,
but he allowed some of his soldiers to slack the cords on one side, whereby Gulliver was able
to feel more comfortable. After this, the little people drew out the arrows that still stuck
in his hands and face, and rubbed the wounds with some pleasant-smelling ointment, which so
soothed his pain that very soon he fell sound asleep. And this was no great wonder, for, as
he afterwards understood, the King's physicians had mixed a very strong sleeping draught with
the wine that had been given him.

Gulliver awoke with a violent fit of sneezing, and with the feeling of small feet running away
from off his chest.

Where was he? Bound still, without doubt, but no longer did he find himself lying on the ground.
It puzzled him greatly that now he lay on a sort of platform. How had he got there?

Soon he began to realize what had happened; and later, when he understood the language, he
learned all that had been done to him while he slept. Before he dropped asleep, he had heard
a rumbling as of wheels, and the shouts of many drivers. This, it seemed, was caused by the
arrival of a huge kind of trolley, a few inches high, but nearly seven feet long, drawn by
fifteen hundred of the King's largest horses.

On this it was meant that he should be taken to the city. By the use of strong poles fixed
in the ground, to which were attached many pulleys, and the strongest ropes to be found in
the country, nine hundred men managed to hoist him as he slept. They then put him on the trolley,
where they again tied him fast.

It was when they were far on their way to the city that Gulliver awoke. The trolley had stopped
for a little to breathe the horses, and one of the officers of the King's Guard who had not
before seen Gulliver, climbed with some friends up his body. While looking at his face, the
officer could not resist the temptation of putting the point of his sword up Gulliver's nose,
which tickled him so that he woke, sneezing violently.

III

GULLIVER IS TAKEN AS A PRISONER TO THE CAPITAL OF LILLIPUT

The city was not reached till the following day, and Gulliver had to spend the night lying
where he was, guarded on each side by five hundred men with torches and bows and arrows, ready
to shoot him if he should attempt to move.

In the morning, the King and all his court, and thousands of the people, came out to gaze on
the wonderful sight. The trolley, with Gulliver on it, stopped outside the walls, alongside
a very large building which had once been used as a temple, but the use of which had been given
up owing to a murder having been committed in it.

The door of this temple was quite four feet high and about two feet wide, and on each side,
about six inches from the ground, was a small window. Inside the building the King's blacksmiths
fastened many chains, which they then brought through one of these little windows and padlocked
round Gulliver's left ankle. Then his bonds were cut, and he was allowed to get up. He found
that he could easily creep through the door, and that there was room inside to lie down.

His chains were nearly six feet long, so that he could get a little exercise by walking backwards
and forwards outside. Always when he walked, thousands of people thronged around to look at
him; even the King himself used to come and gaze by the hour from a high tower which stood
opposite.

One day, just as Gulliver had crept out from his house and had got on his feet, it chanced
that the King, who was a very fine-looking man, taller than any of his people, came riding
along on his great white charger. When the horse saw Gulliver move it was terrified, and plunged
and reared so madly that the people feared that a terrible accident was going to happen, and
several of the King's guards ran in to seize the horse by the head. But the King was a good
horseman, and managed the animal so well that very soon it got over its fright, and he was
able to dismount.

Then he gave orders that food should be brought for Gulliver, twenty little carts full, and
ten of wine; and he and his courtiers, all covered with gold and silver, stood around and watched
him eating. After the King had gone away the people of the city crowded round, and some of
them began to behave very badly, one man even going so far as to shoot an arrow at Gulliver
which was not far from putting out one of his eyes. But the officer in command of the soldiers
who were on guard ordered his men to bind and push six of the worst behaved of the crowd within
reach of Gulliver, who at once seized five of them and put them in his coat pocket. The sixth
he held up to his mouth and made as if he meant to eat him, whereupon the wretched little creature
shrieked aloud with terror, and when Gulliver took out his knife, all the people, even the
soldiers, were dreadfully alarmed. But Gulliver only cut the man's bonds, and let him run away,
which he did in a great hurry. And when he took the others out of his pocket, one by one, and
treated them in the same way, the crowd began to laugh. After that the people always behaved
very well to Gulliver, and he became a great favorite. From all over the kingdom crowds flocked
to see the Great Man Mountain.

In the meantime, as Gulliver learned later, there were frequent meetings of the King's council
to discuss the question of what was to be done with him. Some of the councilors feared lest
he might break loose and cause great damage in the city. Some were of opinion that to keep
and feed so huge a creature would cause a famine in the land, or, at the least, that the expense
would be greater than the public funds could bear; they advised, therefore, that he should
be killed--shot in the hands and face with poisoned arrows. Others, however, argued that if
this were done it would be a very difficult thing to get rid of so large a dead body, which
might cause a pestilence to break out if it lay long unburied so near the city.

Finally, the King and his council gave orders that each morning the surrounding villages should
send into the city for Gulliver's daily use six oxen, forty sheep, and a sufficient quantity
of bread and wine.

It was also commanded that six hundred persons should act as his servants; that three hundred
tailors were to make for him a suit of clothes; and that six professors from the University
were to teach him the language of the country.

When Gulliver could speak the language, he learned a great deal about the land in which he
now found himself. It was called Lilliput, and the people, Lilliputians. These Lilliputians
believed that their kingdom and the neighboring country of Blefuscu were the whole world. Blefuscu
lay far over the sea, to these little people dim and blue on the horizon, though to Gulliver
the distance did not seem to be more than a mile. The Lilliputians knew of no land beyond Blefuscu.
And as for Gulliver himself, they believed that he had fallen from the moon, or from one of
the stars; it was impossible, they said, that so big a race of men could live on the earth.
It was quite certain that there could not be food enough for them. They did not believe Gulliver's
story. He must have fallen from the moon!

Almost the first thing that Gulliver did when he knew the language fairly well, was to send
a petition to the King, praying that his chains might be taken off and that he might be free
to walk about. But this he was told could not then be granted. He must first, the King's council
said, "swear a peace" with the kingdom of Lilliput, and afterwards, if by continued good behavior
he gained their confidence, he might be freed.

Meantime, by the King's orders, two high officers of state were sent to search him, Gulliver
lifted up these officers in his hand and put them into each of his pockets, one after the other,
and they made for the King a careful list of everything found there.

Gulliver afterward saw this inventory. His snuff-box they had described as a "huge silver chest,
full of a sort of dust." Into that dust one of them stepped, and the snuff, flying up in his
face, caused him nearly to sneeze his head off. His pistols they called "hollow pillars of
iron, fastened to strong pieces of timber," and the use of his bullets, and of his powder (which
he had been lucky enough to bring ashore dry, owing to his pouch being water-tight), they could
not understand, while of his watch they could make nothing. They called it "a wonderful kind
of engine, which makes an incessant noise like a water-wheel." But some fancied that it was
perhaps a kind of animal. Certainly it was alive.

All these things, together with his sword, which he carried slung to a belt round his waist,
Gulliver had to give up, first, as well as he could, explaining the use of them. The Lilliputians
could not understand the pistols, and to show his meaning, Gulliver was obliged to fire one
of them. At once hundreds of little people fell down as if they had been struck dead by the
noise. Even the King, though he stood his ground, was sorely frightened. Most of Gulliver's
property was returned to him; but the pistols and powder and bullets, and his sword, were taken
away and put, for safety, under strict guard.

As the King and his courtiers gained more faith in Gulliver, and became less afraid of his
breaking loose and doing some mischief, they began to treat him in a more friendly way than
they had hitherto done, and showed him more of the manners and customs of the country. Some
of these were very curious.

One of the sports of which they were most fond was rope-dancing, and there was no more certain
means of being promoted to high office and power in the state than to possess great cleverness
in that art. Indeed, it was said that the Lord High Treasurer had gained and kept his post
chiefly through his great skill in turning somersaults on the tight rope. The Chief Secretary
for private affairs ran him very close, and there was hardly a Minister of State who did not
owe his position to such successes. Few of them, indeed, had escaped without severe accidents
at one time or another, while trying some specially difficult feat, and many had been lamed
for life. But however many and bad the falls, there were always plenty of other persons to
attempt the same or some more difficult jump.

Taught by his narrow escape from a serious accident when his horse first saw Gulliver, the
King now gave orders that the horses of his army, as well as those from the Royal stables,
should be exercised daily close to the Man Mountain. Soon they became so used to the sight
of him that they would come right up to his foot without starting or shying. Often the riders
would jump their chargers over Gulliver's hand as he held it on the ground; and once the King's
huntsman, better mounted than most of the others, actually jumped over his foot, shoe and all--a
wonderful leap.

Gulliver saw that it was wise to amuse the King in this and other ways, because the more his
Majesty was pleased with him the sooner was it likely that his liberty would be granted. So
he asked one day that some strong sticks, about two feet in height, should be brought to him.
Several of these he fixed firmly in the ground, and across them, near the top, he lashed four
other sticks, enclosing a square space of about two and a half feet. Then to the uprights,
about five inches lower than the crossed sticks, he tied his pocket-handkerchief, and stretched
it tight as a drum.

When the work was finished, he asked the King to let a troop exercise on this stage. His Majesty
was delighted with the idea, and for several days nothing pleased him more than to see Gulliver
lift up the men and horses, and to watch them go through their drill on this platform. Sometimes
he would even be lifted up himself and give the words of command; and once he persuaded the
Queen, who was rather timid, to let herself be held up in her chair within full view of the
scene. But a fiery horse one day, pawing with his hoof, wore a hole in the handkerchief, and
came down heavily on its side, and after this Gulliver could no longer trust the strength of
his stage.

IV

GULLIVER IS FREED, AND CAPTURES THE BLEFUSCAN FLEET

By this time Gulliver's clothes were almost in rags. The three hundred tailors had not yet
been able to finish his new suit, and he had no hat at all, for that had been lost as he came
ashore from the wreck. So he was greatly pleased one day when an express message came to the
King from the coast, saying that some men had found on the shore a great, black, strangely-shaped
mass, as high as a man; it was not alive, they were certain. It had never moved, though for
a time they had watched, before going closer. After making certain that it was not likely to
injure them, by mounting on each other's shoulders they had got on the top, which they found
was flat and smooth, and, by the sound when stamped upon, they judged that it was hollow. It
was thought that the object might possibly be something belonging to the Man Mountain, and
they proposed by the help of five horses to bring it to the city.

Gulliver was sure that it must be his hat, and so it turned out. Nor was it very greatly damaged,
either by the sea or by being drawn by the horses over the ground all the way from the coast,
except that two holes had been bored in the brim, to which a long cord had been fixed by hooks.
Gulliver was much pleased to have it once more.

Two days after this the King took into his head a curious fancy. He ordered a review of troops
to be held, and he directed that Gulliver should stand with his legs very wide apart, while
under him both horse and foot were commanded to march. Over three thousand infantry and one
thousand cavalry passed through the great arch made by his legs, colors flying and bands playing.
The King and Queen themselves sat in their State Coach at the saluting point, near to his left
leg, and all the while Gulliver dared not move a hair's-breadth, lest he should injure some
of the soldiers.

Shortly after this, Gulliver was set free. There had been a meeting of the King's Council on
the subject, and the Lord High Admiral was the only member in favor of still keeping him chained.
This great officer to the end was Gulliver's bitter enemy, and though on this occasion he was
out-voted, yet he was allowed to draw up the conditions which Gulliver was to sign before his
chains were struck off.

The conditions were:

First, that he was not to quit the country without leave granted under the King's Great Seal.

Second, that he was not to come into the city without orders; at which times the people were
to have two hours' notice to keep indoors.

Third, that he should keep to the high roads, and not walk or lie down in a meadow.

Fourth, that he was to take the utmost care not to trample on anybody, or on any horses or
carriages, and that he was not to lift any persons in his hand against their will.

Fifth, that if at any time an express had to be sent in great haste, he was to carry the messenger
and his horse in his pocket a six-days' journey, and to bring them safely back.

Sixth, that he should be the King's ally against the Blefuscans, and that he should try to
destroy their fleet, which was said to be preparing to invade Lilliput.

Seventh, that he should help the workmen to move certain great stones which were needed to
repair some of the public buildings.

Eighth, that he should in "two moons' time" make an exact survey of the kingdom, by counting
how many of his own paces it took him to go all round the coast.

Lastly, on his swearing to the above conditions, it was promised that he should have a daily
allowance of meat and drink equal to the amount consumed by seventeen hundred and twenty-four
of the Lilliputians, for they estimated that Gulliver's size was about equal to that number
of their own people.

Though one or two of the conditions did not please him, especially that about helping the workmen
(which he thought was making him too much a servant), yet Gulliver signed the document at once,
and swore to observe its conditions.

After having done so, and having had his chains removed, the first thing he asked was to be
allowed to see the city (which was called Mildendo). He found that it was surrounded by a great
wall about two and a half feet high, broad enough for one of their coaches and four to be driven
along, and at every ten feet there were strong flanking towers.

Gulliver took off his coat, lest the tails might do damage to the roofs or chimneys of the
houses, and he then stepped over the wall and very carefully walked down the finest of the
streets, one quite five feet wide. Wherever he went, the tops of the houses and the attic windows
were packed with wondering spectators, and he reckoned that the town must hold quite half a
million of people.

In the center of the city, where the two chief streets met, stood the King's Palace, a very
fine building surrounded by a wall. But he was not able to see the whole palace that day, because
the part in which were the royal apartments was shut off by another wall nearly five feet in
height, which he could not get over without a risk of doing damage.

Some days later he climbed over by the help of two stools which he made from some of the largest
trees in the Royal Park, trees nearly seven feet high, which he was allowed to cut down for
the purpose. By putting one of the stools at each side of the wall Gulliver was able to step
across. Then, lying down on his side, and putting his face close to the open windows, he looked
in and saw the Queen and all the young Princes. The Queen smiled, and held her hand out of
one of the windows, that he might kiss it. She was very pleasant and friendly.

One day, about a fortnight after this, there came to call on him, Reldresal, the King's Chief
Secretary, a very great man, one who had always been Gulliver's very good friend. This person
had a long and serious talk with Gulliver about the state of the country.

He said that though to the outward eye things in Lilliput seemed very settled and prosperous,
yet in reality there were troubles, both internal and external, that threatened the safety
of the kingdom.

There had been in Lilliput for a very long time two parties at bitter enmity with each other,
so bitter that they would neither eat, drink, nor talk together, and what one party did, the
other would always try to undo. Each professed to believe that nothing good could come from
the other. Any measure proposed by the party in power was by the other always looked upon as
foolish or evil. And any new law passed by the Government party was said by the Opposition
to be either a wicked attack on the liberties of the people, or something undertaken solely
for the purpose of keeping that party in, and the Opposition out, of power. To such a pitch
had things now come, said the Chief Secretary, entirely owing to the folly of the Opposition,
that the business of the kingdom was almost at a standstill.

Meantime the country was in danger of an invasion by the Blefuscans, who were now fitting out
a great fleet, which was almost ready to sail to attack Lilliput. The war with Blefuscu had
been raging for some years, and the losses by both nations of ships and of men had been very heavy.

This war had broken out in the following way. It had always been the custom in Lilliput, as
far back as history went, for people when breaking an egg at breakfast to do so at the big
end. But it had happened, said the Chief Secretary, that the present King's grandfather, when
a boy, had once when breaking his egg in the usual way, severely cut his finger. Whereupon
his father at once gave strict commands that in future all his subjects should break their
eggs at the small end.

This greatly angered the people, who thought that the King had no right to give such an order,
and they refused to obey. As a consequence no less than six rebellions had taken place: thousands
of the Lilliputians had had their heads cut off, or had been cast into prison, and thousands
had fled for refuge to Blefuscu, rather than obey the hated order.

These "Big endians," as they were called, had been very well received at the Court of Blefuscu,
and finally the Emperor of that country had taken upon himself to interfere in the affairs
of Lilliput, thus bringing on war.

The Chief Secretary ended the talk by saying that the King, having great faith in Gulliver's
strength, and depending on the oath which he had sworn before being released, expected him
now to help in defeating the Blefuscan fleet.

Gulliver was very ready to do what he could, and he at once thought of a plan whereby he might
destroy the whole fleet at one blow. He told all his ideas on the subject to the King, who
gave orders that everything he might need should be supplied without delay. Then Gulliver went
to the oldest seamen in the navy, and learned from them the depth of water between Lilliput
and Blefuscu. It was, they said, nowhere deeper than seventy glumgluffs (which is equal to
about six feet) at high water, and there was no great extent so deep.

After this he walked to the coast opposite Blefuscu, and lying down there behind a hillock,
so that he might not be seen should any of the enemy's ships happen to be cruising near, he
looked long through a small pocket-telescope across the channel. With the naked eye he could
easily see the cliffs of Blefuscu, and soon with his telescope he made out where the fleet
lay--fifty great men-of-war, and many transports, waiting for a fair wind.

Coming back to the city, he gave orders for a great length of the strongest cable, and a quantity
of bars of iron. The cable was little thicker than ordinary pack-thread, and the bars of iron
much about the length and size of knitting-needles. Gulliver twisted three of the iron bars
together and bent them to a hook at one end. He trebled the cable for greater strength, and
thus made fifty shorter cables, to which he fastened the hooks.

Then, carrying these in his hand, he walked back to the coast and waded into the sea, a little
before high water. When he came to mid-channel, he had to swim, but for no great distance.

As soon as they noticed Gulliver coming wading through the water towards their ships, the Blefuscan
sailors all jumped overboard and swam ashore in a terrible fright. Never before had any of
them seen or dreamt of so monstrous a giant, nor had they heard of his being in Lilliput.

Gulliver then quietly took his cables and fixed one securely in the bows of each of the ships
of war, and finally he tied the cables together at his end. But while he was doing this the
Blefuscan soldiers on the shore plucked up courage and began to shoot arrows at him, many of
which stuck in his hands and face. He was very much afraid lest some of these might put out
his eyes; but he remembered, luckily, that in his inner pocket were his spectacles, which he
put on, and then finished his work without risk to his eyes.

On pulling at the cables, however, not a ship could he move. He had forgotten that their anchors
were all down. So he was forced to go in closer and with his knife to cut the vessels free.
While doing this he was of course exposed to a furious fire from the enemy, and hundreds of
arrows struck him, some almost knocking off his spectacles. But again he hauled, and this time
drew the whole fifty vessels after him.

The Blefuscans had thought that it was his intention merely to cast the vessels adrift, so
that they might run aground, but when they saw their great fleet being steadily drawn out to
sea, their grief was terrible. For a great distance Gulliver could hear their cries of despair.

When he had got well away from the land, he stopped in order to pick the arrows from his face
and hands, and to put on some of the ointment that had been rubbed on his wounds when first
the Lilliputians fired into him. By this time the tide had fallen a little, and he was able
to wade all the way across the channel.

The King and his courtiers stood waiting on the shore. They could see the vessels steadily
drawing nearer, but they could not for some time see Gulliver, because only his head was above
water. At first some imagined that he had been drowned, and that the fleet was now on its way
to attack Lilliput.

There was great joy when Gulliver was seen hauling the vessels; and when he landed, the King
was so pleased that on the spot he created him a Nardac, the highest honor that it was in his
power to bestow.

His great success over the Blefuscans, however, turned out to be but the beginning of trouble
for Gulliver. The King was so puffed up by the victory that he formed plans for capturing in
the same way the whole of the enemy's ships of every kind. And it was now his wish to crush
Blefuscu utterly, and to make it nothing but a province depending on Lilliput. Thus, he thought,
he himself would then be monarch of the whole world.

In this scheme Gulliver refused to take any part, and he very plainly said that he would give
no help in making slaves of the Blefuscans. This refusal angered the King very much, and more
than once he artfully brought the matter up at a State Council. Now, several of the councilors,
though they pretended to be Gulliver's friends so long as he was in favor with the King, were
really his secret enemies, and nothing pleased these persons better than to see that the King
was no longer pleased with him. So they did all in their power to nurse and increase the King's
anger, and to make him believe that Gulliver was a traitor.

About this time there came to Lilliput ambassadors from Blefuscu, suing for peace. When a treaty
had been made and signed (very greatly to the advantage of Lilliput), the Blefuscan ambassadors
asked to see the Great Man Mountain, of whom they had heard so much, and they paid Gulliver
a formal call. After asking him to give them some proofs of his strength, they invited him
to visit their Emperor, which Gulliver promised to do.

Accordingly, the next time that he met the King, he asked, as he was bound to do by the paper
he had signed, for permission to leave the country for a time, in order to visit Blefuscu.
The King did not refuse, but his manner was so cold that Gulliver could not help noticing it.
Afterwards he learned from a friend that his enemies in the council had told the King lying
tales of his meetings with the Blefuscan ambassadors, which had had the effect of still further
rousing his anger.

It happened too, most unfortunately, at this time, that Gulliver had offended the Queen by
a well-meant, but badly-managed, effort to do her a service, and thus he lost also her friendship.
But though he was now out of favor at court, he was still an object of great interest to every one.

V

GULLIVER'S ESCAPE FROM LILLIPUT AND RETURN TO ENGLAND

Gulliver had three hundred cooks to dress his food and these men, with their families, lived
in small huts which had been built for them near his house.

He had made for himself a chair and a table. On to this table it was his custom to lift twenty
waiters, and these men then drew up by ropes and pulleys all his food, and his wine in casks,
which one hundred other servants had in readiness on the ground. Gulliver would often eat his
meal with many hundreds of people looking on.

One day the King, who had not seen him eat since this table had been built, sent a message
that he and the Queen desired to be present that day while Gulliver dined. They arrived just
before his dinner hour, and he at once lifted the King and Queen and the Princes, with their
attendants and guards, on to the table.

Their Majesties sat in their chairs of state all the time, watching with deep interest the
roasts of beef and mutton, and whole flocks of geese and turkeys and fowls disappear into Gulliver's
mouth. A roast of beef of which he had to make more than two mouthfuls was seldom seen, and
he ate them bones and all. A goose or a turkey was but one bite.

Certainly, on this occasion, Gulliver ate more than usual, thinking by so doing to amuse and
please the court.

But in this he erred, for it was turned against him. Flimnap, the Lord High Treasurer, who
had always been one of his enemies, pointed out to the King the great daily expense of such
meals, and told how this huge man had already cost the country over a million and a half of
sprugs (the largest Lilliputian gold coin). Things, indeed, were beginning to go very ill with
Gulliver.

Now it happened about this time that one of the King's courtiers, to whom Gulliver had been
very kind, came to him by night very privately in a closed chair, and asked to have a talk,
without any one else being present.

Gulliver gave to a servant whom he could trust orders that no one else was to be admitted,
and having put the courtier and his chair upon the table, so that he might better hear all
that was said, he sat down to listen.

Gulliver was told that there had lately been several secret meetings of the King's Privy Council,
on his account. The Lord High Admiral (who now hated him because of his success against the
Blefuscan fleet), Flimnap, the High Treasurer, and others of his enemies, had drawn up against
him charges of treason and other crimes. The courtier had brought with him a copy of these
charges, and Gulliver now read them.

It was made a point against him that, when ordered to do so by the King, he had refused to
seize all the other Blefuscan ships. It was also said that he would not join in utterly crushing
the empire of Blefuscu, nor give aid when it was proposed to put to death not only all the
Big endians who had fled for refuge to that country, but all the Blefuscans themselves who
were friends of the Big-endians. For this he was said to be a traitor.

He was also accused of being over-friendly with the Blefuscan ambassadors; and it was made
a grave charge against him that though his Majesty had not given him written leave to visit
Blefuscu, he yet was getting ready to go to that country, in order to give help to the Emperor
against Lilliput.

There had been many debates on these charges, said the courtier, and the Lord High Admiral
had made violent speeches, strongly advising that the Great Man Mountain should be put to death.
In this he was joined by Flimnap, and by others, so that actually the greater part of the council
was in favor of instant death by the most painful means that could be used.

The less unfriendly members of the council, however, while saying that they had no doubt of
Gulliver's guilt, were yet of the opinion that, as his services to the kingdom of Lilliput
had been great, the punishment of death was too severe. They thought it would be enough if
his eyes were put out. This, they said, would not prevent him from being still made useful.

Then began a most excited argument, the Admiral and those who sided with him insisting that
Gulliver should be killed at once.

At last the Secretary rose and said that he had a middle course to suggest. This was, that
Gulliver's eyes should be put out, and that thereafter his food should be gradually so reduced
in quantity that in the course of two or three months he would die of starvation. By which
time, said the Secretary, his body would be wasted to an extent that would make it easy for
five or six hundred men, in a few days, to cut off the flesh and take it away in cart-loads
to be buried at a distance. Thus there would be no danger of a pestilence breaking out from
the dead body lying near the city. The skeleton, he said, could then be put in the National Museum.

It was finally decided that this sentence should be carried out, and twenty of the King's surgeons
were ordered to be present in three days' time to see the operation of putting out Gulliver's
eyes properly done. Sharp-pointed arrows were to be shot into the balls of his eyes.

The courtier now left the house, as privately as he had come, and Gulliver was left to decide
what he should do.

At first he thought of attacking the city, and destroying it. But by doing this he must have
destroyed, with the city, a great many thousands of innocent people, which he could not make
up his mind to do.

At last he wrote a letter to the Chief Secretary, saying that as the King had himself told
him that he might visit Blefuscu, he had decided to do so that morning.

Without waiting for an answer, he set out for the coast, where he seized a large man-of-war
which was at anchor there, tied a cable to her bow, and then putting his clothes and his blanket
on board, he drew the ship after him to Blefuscu. There he was well received by the Emperor.
But as there happened to be no house big enough for him, he was forced, during his stay, to
sleep each night on the ground, wrapped in his blanket.

Three days after his arrival, when walking along the seashore, he noticed something in the
water which looked not unlike a boat floating bottom up. Gulliver waded and swam out, and found
that he was right. It was a boat. By the help of some of the Blefsucan ships, with much difficulty
he got it ashore. When the tide had fallen, two thousand of the Emperor's dockyard men helped
him to turn it over, and Gulliver found that but little damage had been done.

He now set to work to make oars and mast and sail for the boat, and to fit it out and provision
it for a voyage.

While this work was going on, there came from Lilliput a message demanding that Gulliver should
be bound hand and foot and returned to that country as a prisoner, there to be punished as
a traitor. To this message the Emperor replied that it was not possible to bind him; that moreover
the Great Man Mountain had found a vessel of size great enough to carry him over the sea, and
that it was his purpose to leave the Empire of Blefuscu in the course of a few weeks.

Gulliver did not delay his work, and in less than a month he was ready to sail.

He put on board the boat the carcasses of one hundred oxen and three hundred sheep, with a
quantity of bread and wine, and as much meat ready cooked as four hundred cooks could prepare.

He also took with him a herd of six live black cows and two bulls, and a flock of sheep, meaning
to take them with him to England, if ever he should get there. As food for these animals he
took a quantity of hay and corn.

Gulliver would have liked to take with him some of the people, but this the Emperor would not
permit.

Everything being ready, he sailed from Blefuscu on 24th September 1701, and the same night
anchored on the lee side of an island which seemed to be uninhabited. Leaving this island on
the following morning, he sailed to the eastward for two days. On the evening of the second
day he sighted a ship, on reaching which, to his great joy, he found that she was an English
vessel on her way home from Japan.

Putting his cattle and sheep in his coat-pockets, he went on board with all his cargo of provisions.
The captain received him very kindly, and asked him from whence he had come, and how he happened
to be at sea in an open boat.

Gulliver told his tale in as few words as possible. The captain stared with wonder, and would
not believe his story. But Gulliver then took from his pockets the black cattle and the sheep,
which of course clearly showed that he had been speaking truth. He also showed gold coins which
the Emperor of Blefuscu had given him, some of which he presented to the captain.

The vessel did not arrive at the port of London till April, 1702, but there was no loss of
the live stock, excepting that the rats on board carried off and ate one of the sheep. All
the others were got safely ashore, and were put to graze on a bowling-green at Greenwich, where
they throve very well. He had a wife whom he loved dearly and an only son whose name was Aladdin.

But, sad to say, although the tailor was good and industrious, his son was so idle and bad
that his father and mother did not know what to do with him. All day long he played in the
streets with other idle boys, and when he grew big enough to learn a trade he said he did not
mean to work at all. His poor father was very much troubled, and ordered Aladdin to come to
the workshop to learn to be a tailor, but Aladdin only laughed, and ran away so swiftly that
neither his father nor mother could catch him.

"Alas!" said Mustapha sadly, "I can do nothing with this idle boy."

And he grew so sad about it, that at last he fell ill and died.

Then the poor widow was obliged to sell the little workshop, and try to make enough money for
herself and Aladdin by spinning.

Now it happened that one day when Aladdin was playing as usual with the idle street boys, a
tall, dark, old man stood watching him, and when the game was finished he made a sign to Aladdin
to come to him.

"What is thy name, my boy?" asked this old man, who, though he appeared so kind, was really
an African Magician.

"My name is Aladdin," answered the boy, wondering who this stranger could be.

"And what is thy father's name?" asked the Magician.

"My father was Mustapha the tailor, but he has been dead a long time now," answered Aladdin.

"Alas!" cried the wicked old Magician, pretending to weep, "he was my brother, and thou must
be my nephew. I am thy long-lost uncle!" and he threw his arms round Aladdin's neck and embraced
him.

"Tell thy dear mother that I will come and see her this very day," he cried, "and give her
this small present." And he placed in Aladdin's hands five gold pieces.

Aladdin ran home in great haste to tell his mother the story of the long-lost uncle.

"It must be a mistake," she said, "thou hast no uncle."

But when she saw the gold she began to think that this stranger must be a relation, and so
she prepared a grand supper to welcome him when he came.

They had not long to wait before the African Magician appeared, bringing with him all sorts
of fruits and delicious sweets for desert.

"Tell me about my poor brother," he said, as he embraced Aladdin and his mother. "Show me exactly
where he used to sit."

Then the widow pointed to a seat on the sofa, and the Magician knelt down and began to kiss
the place and weep over it.

The poor widow was quite touched, and began to believe that this really must be her husband's
brother, especially when he began to show the kindest interest in Aladdin.

"What is thy trade?" he asked the boy.

"Alas!" said the widow, "he will do nothing but play in the streets."

Aladdin hung his head with shame as his uncle gravely shook his head.

"He must begin work at once," he said. "How would it please thee to have a shop of thy own?
I could buy one for thee, and stock it with silks and rich stuffs."

Aladdin danced with joy at the very idea, and next day set out with his supposed uncle, who
bought him a splendid suit of clothes, and took him all over the city to show him the sights.

The day after, the Magician again took Aladdin out with him, but this time they went outside
the city, through beautiful gardens, into the open country. They walked so far that Aladdin
began to grow weary, but the Magician gave him a cake and some delicious fruit and told him
such wonderful tales that he scarcely noticed how far they had gone. At last they came to a
deep valley between two mountains, and there the Magician paused.

"Stop!" he cried, "this is the very place I am in search of. Gather some sticks that we may
make a fire."

Aladdin quickly did as he was bid, and had soon gathered together a great heap of dry sticks.
The Magician then set fire to them, and the heap blazed up merrily. With great care the old
man now sprinkled some curious-looking powder on the flames, and muttered strange words. In
an instant the earth beneath their feet trembled, and they heard a rumbling like distant thunder.
Then the ground opened in front of them, and showed a great square slab of stone with a ring in it.

By this time Aladdin was so frightened that he turned to run home as fast as he could, but
the Magician caught him, and gave him such a blow that he fell to the earth.

"Why dost thou strike me, uncle?" sobbed Aladdin.

"Do as I bid thee," said the Magician, "and then thou shalt be well treated. Dost thou see
that stone? Beneath it is a treasure which I will share with thee. Only obey me, and it will
soon be ours."

As soon as Aladdin heard of a treasure, he jumped up and forgot all his fears. He seized the
ring as the Magician directed, and easily pulled up the stone.

"Now," said the old man, "look in and thou wilt see stone steps leading downwards. Thou shalt
descend those steps until thou comest to three great halls. Pass through them, but take care
to wrap thy coat well round thee that thou mayest touch nothing, for if thou dost, thou wilt
die instantly. When thou hast passed through the halls thou wilt come into a garden of fruit-trees.
Go through it until thou seest a niche with a lighted lamp in it. Put the light out, pour forth
the oil, and bring the lamp to me."

So saying the Magician placed a magic ring upon Aladdin's finger to guard him, and bade the
boy begin his search.

Aladdin did exactly as he was told and found everything just as the Magician had said. He went
through the halls and the garden until he came to the lamp, and when he had poured out the
oil and placed the lamp carefully inside his coat he began to look about him.

He had never seen such a lovely garden before, even in his dreams. The fruits that hung upon
the trees were of every color of the rainbow. Some were clear and shining like crystal, some
sparkled with a crimson light and others were green, blue, violet, and orange, while the leaves
that shaded them were silver and gold. Aladdin did not guess that these fruits were precious
stones, diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and sapphires, but they looked so pretty that he filled
all his pockets with them as he passed back through the garden.

The Magician was eagerly peering down the stone steps when Aladdin began to climb up.

"Give me the lamp," he cried, stretching his hand for it.

"Wait until I get out," answered Aladdin, "and then I will give it thee."

"Hand it up to me at once," screamed the old man angrily.

"Not till I am safely out," repeated Aladdin.

Then the Magician stamped with rage, and rushing to the fire threw on it some more of the curious
powder, uttered the same strange words as before, and instantly the stone slipped back into
its place, the earth closed over it, and Aladdin was left in darkness.

This showed indeed that the wicked old man was not Aladdin's uncle. By his magic arts in Africa
he had found out all about the lamp, which was a wonderful treasure, as you will see. But he
knew that he could not get it himself, that another hand must fetch it to him. This was the
reason why he had fixed upon Aladdin to help him, and had meant, as soon as the lamp was safely
in his hand, to kill the boy.

As his plan had failed he went back to Africa, and was not seen again for a long, long time.

But there was poor Aladdin shut up underground, with no way of getting out! He tried to find
his way back to the great halls and the beautiful garden of shining fruits, but the walls had
closed up, and there was no escape that way either. For two days the poor boy sat crying and
moaning in his despair, and just as he had made up his mind that he must die, he clasped his
hands together, and in doing so rubbed the ring which the Magician had put upon his finger.

In an instant a huge figure rose out of the earth and stood before him.

"What is thy will, my master?" it said. "I am the Slave of the Ring, and must obey him who
wears the ring."

"Whoever or whatever you are," cried Aladdin, "take me out of this dreadful place."

Scarcely had he said these words when the earth opened, and the next moment Aladdin found himself
lying at his mother's door. He was so weak for want of food, and his joy at seeing his mother
was so great, that he fainted away, but when he came to himself he promised to tell her all
that had happened.

"But first give me something to eat," he cried, "for I am dying of hunger."

"Alas!" said his mother, "I have nothing in the house except a little cotton, which I will
go out and sell."

"Stop a moment," cried Aladdin, "rather let us sell this old lamp which I have brought back
with me."

Now the lamp looked so old and dirty that Aladdin's mother began to rub it, wishing to brighten
it a little that it might fetch a higher price.

But no sooner had she given it the first rub than a huge dark figure slowly rose from the floor
like a wreath of smoke until it reached the ceiling, towering above them.

"What is thy will?" it asked. "I am the Slave of the Lamp, and must do the bidding of him who
holds the Lamp."

The moment the figure began to rise from the ground Aladdin's mother was so terrified that
she fainted away, but Aladdin managed to snatch the lamp from her, although he could scarcely
hold it in his own shaking hand.

"Fetch me something to eat," he said in a trembling voice, for the terrible Genie was glaring
down upon him.

The Slave of the Lamp disappeared in a cloud of smoke, but in an instant he was back again,
bringing with him a most delicious breakfast, served upon plates and dishes of pure gold.

By this time Aladdin's mother had recovered, but she was almost too frightened to eat, and
begged Aladdin to sell the lamp at once, for she was sure it had something to do with evil
spirits. But Aladdin only laughed at her fears, and said he meant to make use of the magic
lamp and wonderful ring, now that he knew their worth.

As soon as they again wanted money they sold the golden plates and dishes, and when these were
all gone Aladdin ordered the Genie to bring more, and so they lived in comfort for several years.

Now Aladdin had heard a great deal about the beauty of the Sultan's daughter, and he began
to long so greatly to see her that he could not rest. He thought of a great many plans, but
they all seemed impossible, for the Princess never went out without a veil, which covered her
entirely. At last, however, he managed to enter the palace and hide himself behind a door,
peeping through a chink when the Princess passed to go to her bath.

The moment Aladdin's eyes rested upon the beautiful Princess he loved her with all his heart,
for she was as fair as the dawn of a summer morning.

"Mother," he cried when he reached home, "I have seen the Princess, and I have made up my mind
to marry her. Thou shalt go at once to the Sultan, and beg him to give me his daughter."

Aladdin's mother stared at her son, and then began to laugh at such a wild idea. She was almost
afraid that Aladdin must be mad, but he gave her no peace until she did as he wished.

So the next day she very unwillingly set out for the palace, carrying the magic fruit wrapped
up in a napkin, to present to the Sultan. There were many other people offering their petitions
that day, and the poor woman was so frightened that she dared not go forward, and so no one
paid any attention to her as she stood there patiently holding her bundle. For a whole week
she had gone every day to the palace, before the Sultan noticed her.

"Who is that poor woman who comes every day carrying a white bundle?" he asked.

Then the Grand Vizier ordered that she should be brought forward, and she came bowing herself
to the ground.

She was almost too terrified to speak, but when the Sultan spoke so kindly to her she took
courage, and told him of Aladdin's love for the Princess, and of his bold request, "He sends
you this gift," she continued, and opening the bundle she presented the magic fruit.

A cry of wonder went up from all those who stood around, for never had they beheld such exquisite
jewels before. They shone and sparkled with a thousand lights and colors, and dazzled the eyes
that gazed upon them.

The Sultan was astounded, and spoke to the Grand Vizier apart.

"Surely it is fit that I should give my daughter to one who can present such a wondrous gift?"
he said....

Now when three months were ended, Aladdin's mother again presented herself before the Sultan,
and reminded him of his promise, that the Princess should wed her son.

"I ever abide by my royal word," said the Sultan; "but he who marries my daughter must first
send me forty golden basins filled to the brim with precious stones. These basins must be carried
by forty black slaves, each led by a white slave dressed as befits the servants of the Sultan."

Aladdin's mother returned home in great distress when she heard this, and told Aladdin what
the Sultan had said.

"Alas, my son!" she cried, "thy hopes are ended."

"Not so, mother," answered Aladdin. "The Sultan shall not have long to wait for his answer."

Then he rubbed the magic lamp, and when the Genie appeared, he bade him provide the forty golden
basins filled with jewels, and all the slaves which the Sultan had demanded.

Now when this splendid procession passed through the streets on its way to the palace, all
the people came out to see the sight, and stood amazed when they saw the golden basins filled
with sparkling gems carried on the heads of the great black slaves. And when the palace was
reached, and the slaves presented the jewels to the Sultan, he was so surprised and delighted
that he was more than willing that Aladdin should marry the Princess at once.

"Go, fetch thy son," he said to Aladdin's mother, who was waiting near. "Tell him that this
day he shall wed my daughter."

But when Aladdin heard the news he refused to hasten at once to the palace, as his mother advised.
First he called the Genie, and told him to bring a scented bath, and a robe worked in gold,
such as a King might wear. After this he called for forty slaves to attend him, and six to
walk before his mother, and a horse more beautiful than the Sultan's, and lastly, for ten thousand
pieces of gold put up in ten purses.

When all these things were ready, and Aladdin was dressed in his royal robe, he set out for
the palace. As he rode along on his beautiful horse, attended by his forty slaves, he scattered
the golden pieces out of the ten purses among the crowd, and all the people shouted with joy
and delight. No one knew that this was the idle boy who used to play about the streets but
they thought he was some great foreign Prince.

Thus Aladdin arrived at the palace in great state, and when the Sultan had embraced him, he
ordered that the wedding feast should be prepared at once, and that the marriage should take
place that day.

"Not so, your Majesty," said Aladdin; "I will not marry the Princess until I have built a palace
fit for the daughter of the Sultan."

Then he returned home, and once more called up the Slave of the Lamp.

"Build me the fairest palace ever beheld by mortal eye," ordered Aladdin. "Let it be built
of marble and jasper and precious stones. In the midst I would have a great hall, whose walls
shall be of gold and silver, lighted by four-and-twenty windows. These windows shall all be
set with diamonds, rubies, and other precious stones, and one only shall be left unfinished.
There must also be stables with horses, and slaves to serve in the palace. Begone, and do thy
work quickly."

And lo! in the morning when Aladdin looked out, there stood the most wonderful palace that
ever was built. Its marble walls were flushed a delicate pink in the morning light, and the
jewels flashed from every window.

Then Aladdin and his mother set off for the Sultan's palace, and the wedding took place that
day. The Princess loved Aladdin as soon as she saw him, and great were the rejoicings throughout
the city.

The next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to visit the new palace, and when he entered the great
hall, whose walls were of gold and silver and whose windows were set with jewels, he was filled
with admiration and astonishment.

"It is the wonder of the world," he cried. "Never before have mortal eyes beheld such a beautiful
palace. One thing alone surprises me. Why is there one window left unfinished?"

"Your Majesty," answered Aladdin, "this has been done with a purpose, for I wished that thine
own royal hand should have the honor of putting the finishing touch to my palace."

The Sultan was so pleased when he heard this, that he sent at once for all the court jewelers
and ordered them to finish the window like the rest.

The court jewelers worked for many days, and then sent to tell the Sultan that they had used
up all the jewels they possessed, and still the window was not half finished. The Sultan commanded
that his own jewels should be given to complete the work; even when these were used the window
was not finished.

Then Aladdin ordered the jewelers to stop their work, and to take back all the Sultan's jewels
as well as their own. And that night he called up the Slave of the Lamp once more, and bade
him finish the window. This was done before the morning, and great was the surprise of the
Sultan and all his workmen.

Now Aladdin did not grow proud of his great riches but was gentle and courteous to all, and
kind to the poor, so that the people all loved him dearly. He fought and won many battles for
the Sultan, and was the greatest favorite in the land.

But far away in Africa there was trouble brewing for Aladdin. The wicked old Magician who had
pretended to be Aladdin's uncle found out by his magic powers that the boy had not perished
when he left him underground, but had somehow managed to escape and become rich and powerful.

"He must have discovered the secret of the lamp," shrieked the Magician, tearing his hair with
rage. "I will not rest day or night until I shall have found some way of taking it from him."

So he journeyed from Africa to China, and when he came to the city where Aladdin lived and
saw the wonderful palace, he nearly choked with fury to see all its splendor and richness.
Then he disguised himself as a merchant, and bought a number of copper lamps, and with these
went from street to street, crying, "New lamps for old."

As soon as the people heard his cry, they crowded round him, laughing and jeering, for they
thought he must be mad to make such an offer.

Now it happened that Aladdin was out hunting, and the Princess sat alone in the hall of the
jeweled windows. When, therefore, she heard the noise that was going on in the street outside,
she called to her slaves to ask what it meant.

Presently one of the slaves came back, laughing so much that she could hardly speak.

"It is a curious old man who offers to give new lamps for old," she cried. "Did any one ever
hear before of such a strange way of trading?"

The Princess laughed too, and pointed to an old lamp which hung in a niche close by.

"There is an old enough lamp," she said. "Take it and see if the old man will really give a
new one for it."

The slave took it down and ran out to the street once more, and when the Magician saw that
it was indeed what he wanted, he seized the Magic Lamp with both his hands.

"Choose any lamp you like," he said, showing her those of bright new copper. He did not care
now what happened. She might have all the new lamps if she wanted them.

Then he went a little way outside the city, and when he was quite alone he took out the Magic
Lamp and rubbed it gently. Immediately the Genie stood before him and asked what was his will.

"I order thee to carry off the palace of Aladdin, with the Princess inside, and set it down
in a lonely spot in Africa."

And in an instant the palace, with every one in it, had disappeared, and when the Sultan happened
to look out of his window, lo! there was no longer a palace to be seen.

"This must be enchantment," he cried.

Then he ordered his men to set out and bring Aladdin to him in chains.

The officers met Aladdin as he was returning from the hunt, and they immediately seized him,
loaded him with chains, and carried him off to the Sultan. But as he was borne along, the people
gathered around him, for they loved him dearly, and vowed that no harm should befall him.

The Sultan was beside himself with rage when he saw Aladdin, and gave orders that his head
should be cut off at once. But the people had begun to crowd into the palace, and they were
so fierce and threatening that he dared not do as he wished. He was obliged to order the chains
to be taken off, and Aladdin to be set free.

As soon as Aladdin was allowed to speak he asked why all this was done to him.

"Wretch!" exclaimed the Sultan, "come hither, and I will show thee."

Then he led Aladdin to the window and showed him the empty space where his palace had once stood.

"Think not that I care for thy vanished palace," he said. "But where is the Princess, my daughter?"

So astonished was Aladdin that for some time he could only stand speechless, staring at the
place where his palace ought to have been.

At last he turned to the Sultan.

"Your Majesty," he said, "grant me grace for one month, and if by that time I have not brought
back thy daughter to thee, then put me to death as I deserve."

So Aladdin was set free, and for three days he went about like a madman, asking every one he
met where his palace was. But no one could tell him, and all laughed at his misery. Then he
went to the river to drown himself; but as he knelt on the bank and clasped his hands to say
his prayers before throwing himself in, he once more rubbed the Magic Ring. Instantly the Genie
of the Ring stood before him.

"What is thy will, O master?" it asked.

"Bring back my Princess and my palace," cried Aladdin, "and save my life."

"That I cannot do," said the Slave of the Ring. "Only the Slave of the Lamp has power to bring
back thy palace."

"Then take me to the place where my palace now stands," said Aladdin, "and put me down beneath
the window of the Princess."

And almost before Aladdin had done speaking he found himself in Africa, beneath the windows
of his own palace.

He was so weary that he lay down and fell fast asleep; but before long, when day dawned, he
was awakened by the song of the birds, and as he looked around his courage returned. He was
now sure that all his misfortunes must have been caused by the loss of the Magic Lamp, and
he determined to find out as soon as possible who had stolen it.

That same morning the Princess awoke feeling happier than she had felt since she had been carried
off. The sun was shining so brightly, and the birds were singing so gaily, that she went to
the window to greet the opening day. And who should she see standing beneath her window but
Aladdin!

With a cry of joy she threw open the casement and the sound made Aladdin look up. It was not
long before he made his way through a secret door and held her in his arms.

"Tell me, Princess," said Aladdin, when they had joyfully embraced each other many times, "what
has become of the old lamp which hung in a niche of the great hall?"

"Alas! my husband," answered the Princess, "I fear my carelessness has been the cause of all
our misfortunes."

Then she told him how the wicked old Magician had pretended to be a merchant, and had offered
new lamps for old, and how he had thus managed to secure the Magic Lamp.

"He has it still," she added, "for I know that he carries it always, hidden in his robe."

"Princess," said Aladdin, "I must recover this lamp, and thou shalt help me. To-night when
the Magician dines with thee, dress thyself in thy costliest robes, and be kind and gracious
to him. Then bid him fetch some of the wines of Africa, and when he is gone, I will tell thee
what thou shalt do."

So that night the Princess put on her most beautiful robes, and looked so lovely and was so
kind when the Magician came in, that he could scarcely believe his eyes. For she had been sad
and angry ever since he had carried her off.

"I believe now that Aladdin must be dead," she said, "and I have made up my mind to mourn no
longer. Let us begin our feast. But see! I grow weary of these wines of China, fetch me instead
the wine of thy own country."

Now Aladdin had meanwhile prepared a powder which he directed the Princess to place in her
own wine-cup. So when the Magician returned with the African wine, she filled her cup and offered
it to him in token of friendship. The Magician drank it up eagerly, and scarcely had he finished
when he dropped down dead.

Then Aladdin came out of the next chamber where he had hidden himself, and searched in the
Magician's robe until he found the Magic Lamp. He rubbed it joyfully, and when the Genie appeared,
ordered that the palace should be carried back to China, and set down in its own place.

The following morning, when the Sultan rose early, for he was too sad to take much rest, he
went to the window to gaze on the place where Aladdin's palace had once stood. He rubbed his
eyes, and stared wildly about.

"This must be a dream," he cried, for there stood the palace in all its beauty, looking fairer
than ever in the morning light.

Not a moment did the Sultan lose, but he rode over to the palace at once, and when he had embraced
Aladdin and his daughter, they told him the whole story of the African Magician. Then Aladdin
showed him the dead body of the wicked old man, and there was peace between them once more.

But there was still trouble in store for Aladdin. The African Magician had a younger brother
who also dealt in magic, and who was if possible even more wicked than his elder brother.

Full of revenge, this younger brother started for China, determined to punish Aladdin and steal
the Magic Lamp for himself. As soon as he arrived he went in secret to the cell of a holy woman
called Fatima, and obliged her to give him her robe and veil as a disguise. Then to keep the
secret safe he killed the poor woman.

Dressed in the robe and veil, the wicked Magician walked through the streets near Aladdin's
palace, and all the people as he passed by knelt and kissed his robe, for they thought he was
indeed the holy woman.

As soon as the Princess heard that Fatima was passing by in the street, she sent and commanded
her to be brought into the hall, and she treated the supposed holy woman with great respect
and kindness, for she had often longed to see her.

"Is not this a fine hall?" she asked, as they sat together in the hall of the jeweled windows.

"It is indeed most beautiful," answered the Magician, who kept his veil carefully down, "but
to my mind there is one thing wanting. If only thou couldst have a roc's egg hung in the dome
it would be perfect."

As soon as the Princess heard these words she became discontented and miserable, and when Aladdin
came in, she looked so sad that he at once asked what was the matter.

"I can never be happy until I have a roc's egg hanging from the dome of the great hall," she
answered.

"In that case thou shalt soon be happy," said Aladdin gaily, and taking down the lamp, he summoned
the Genie.

But when the Slave of the Lamp heard the order his face grew terrible with rage, and his eyes
gleamed like burning coals.

"Vile wretch!" he shrieked, "have I not given thee all thy wishes, and now dost thou ask me
to kill my master, and hang him as an ornament in thy palace? Thou deservest truly to die;
but I know that the request cometh not from thine own heart, but was the suggestion of that
wicked Magician who pretends to be a holy woman."

With these words the Genie vanished, and. Aladdin went at once to the room where the Princess
was awaiting him.

"I have a headache," he said. "Call the holy woman, that she may place her hand upon my forehead
and ease the pain."

But the moment that the false Fatima appeared Aladdin sprang up and plunged his dagger into
that evil heart.

"What hast thou done?" cried the Princess. "Alas! thou hast slain the holy woman."

"This is no holy woman," answered Aladdin, "but an evil Magician whose purpose was to destroy
us both."

So Aladdin was saved from the wicked design of the two Magicians, and there was no one left
to disturb his peace. He and the Princess lived together in great happiness for many years,
and when the Sultan died they succeeded to the throne, and ruled both wisely and well. And
so there was great peace throughout the land.

II

THE ENCHANTED HORSE

It was New Year's day in Persia, the most splendid feast-day of all the year, and the King
had been entertained, hour after hour, by the wonderful shows prepared for him by his people.
Evening was drawing on and the court was just about to retire, when an Indian appeared, leading
a horse which he wished to show to the King. It was not a real horse, but it was so wonderfully
made that it looked exactly as if it were alive.

"Your Majesty," cried the Indian, as he bowed himself to the ground, "I beg thou wilt look
upon this wonder. Nothing thou hast seen to-day can equal this horse of mine. I have only to
mount upon its back and wish myself in any part of the world, and it carries me there in a
few minutes." Now the King of Persia was very fond of curious and clever things, so he looked
at the horse with great interest.

"It seems only a common horse," he said, "but thou shalt show us what it can do."

Then he pointed to a distant mountain, and bade the Indian to fetch a branch from the palm-trees
which grew near its foot.

The Indian vaulted into the saddle, turned a little peg in the horse's neck, and in a moment
was flying so swiftly through the air that he soon disappeared from sight. In less than a quarter
of an hour he reappeared, and laid the palm-branch at the King's feet.

"Thou art right," cried the King; "thy enchanted horse is the most wonderful thing I have yet
seen. What is its price? I must have it for my own."

The Indian shook his head.

"Your Majesty," he said, "this horse can never be sold for money, but can only be exchanged
for something of equal value. It shall be thine only if thou wilt give me instead the Princess,
your daughter, for my wife."

At these words the King's son sprang to his feet.

"Sire," he cried, "thou wilt never dream of granting such a request."

"My son," answered the King, "at whatever cost I must have this wonderful horse. But before
I agree to the exchange, I would wish thee to try the horse, and tell me what thou thinkest of it."

The Indian, who stood listening to what they said, was quite willing that the Prince should
try the Enchanted Horse, and began to give him directions how to guide it. But as soon as the
Prince was in the saddle and saw the peg which made the horse start, he never waited to hear
more. He turned the screw at once, and went flying off through the air.

"Alas!" cried the Indian, "he has gone off without learning how to come back. Never will he
be able to stop the horse unless he finds the second peg."

The King was terribly frightened when he heard the Indian's words, for, by this time, the Prince
had disappeared from sight.

"Wretch," he cried, "thou shalt be cast into prison, and unless my son returns in safety, thou
shalt be put to death."

Meanwhile the Prince had gone gaily sailing up into the air until he reached the clouds, and
could no longer see the earth below. This was very pleasant, and he felt that he had never
had such a delicious ride in his life before. But presently he began to think it was time to
descend. He screwed the peg round and round, backwards and forwards, but it seemed to make
no difference. Instead of coming down he sailed higher and higher, until he thought he was
going to knock his head against the blue sky.

What was to be done? The Prince began to grow a little nervous, and he felt over the horse's
neck to see if there was another peg to be found anywhere. To his joy, just behind the ear.
He touched a small screw, and when he turned it, he felt he was going slower and slower, and
gently turning round. Then he shouted with joy as the Enchanted Horse flew downwards through
the starry night, and he saw, stretched out before him, a beautiful city gleaming white through
the purple mantle of the night.

Everything was strange to him, and he did not know in what direction to guide the horse, so
he let it go where it would, and presently it stopped on the roof of a great marble palace.
There was a gallery running round the roof, and at the end of the gallery there was a door
leading down some white marble steps.

The Prince began at once to descend the steps, and found himself in a great hall where a row
of black slaves were sleeping soundly, guarding the entrance to a room beyond.

Very softly the Prince crept past the guards, and lifting the curtain from the door, looked in.

And there he saw a splendid room lighted by a thousand lights and filled with sleeping slaves,
and in the middle, upon a sofa, was the most beautiful Princess his eyes had ever gazed upon.

She was so lovely that the Prince held his breath with admiration as he looked at her. Then
he went softly to her side, and, kneeling by the sofa, gently touched her hand. The Princess
sighed and opened her eyes, but before she could cry out, he begged her in a whisper to be
silent and fear nothing.

"I am a Prince," he said, "the son of the King of Persia. I am in danger of my life here, and
crave thy protection."

Now this Princess was no other than the daughter of the King of Bengal, who happened to be
staying alone in her summer palace outside the city.

"I will protect thee," said the Princess kindly, giving him her hand. Then she awoke her slaves
and bade them give the stranger food and prepare a sleeping-room for him.

"I long to hear thy adventures and how thou camest here," she said to the Prince, "but first
thou must rest and refresh thyself."

Never before had the Princess seen any one so gallant and handsome as this strange young Prince.
She dressed herself in her loveliest robes, and twined her hair with her most precious jewels,
that she might appear as beautiful as possible in his eyes. And when the Prince saw her again,
he thought her the most charming Princess in all the world, and he loved her with all his heart.
But when he had told her all his adventures she sighed to think that he must now leave her
and return to his father's court.

"Do not grieve," he said, "I will return in state as befits a Prince, and demand thy hand in
marriage from the King thy father."

"Stay but a few days ere thou goest," replied the Princess. "I cannot part with thee so soon."

The Prince was only too willing to wait a while, and the Princess entertained him so well with
feasts and hunting-parties that day after day slipped by, and still he lingered.

At last, however, the thought of his home and his father's grief made him decide to return at once.

"My Princess," he said, "since it is so hard to part, wilt thou not ride with me upon the Enchanted
Horse? When we are once more in Persia our marriage shall take place, and then we will return
to the King thy father."

So together they mounted the Enchanted Horse and the Prince placed his arm around the Princess
and turned the magic peg. Up and up they flew over land and sea, and then the Prince turned
the other screw, and they landed just outside his father's city. He guided the horse to a palace
outside the gates, and there he left the Princess, for he wished to go alone to prepare his father.

Now when the Prince reached the court he found every one dressed in brown, and all the bells
of the city were tolling mournfully.

"Why is every one so sad?" he asked of one of the guards.

"The Prince, the Prince!" cried the man. "The Prince has come back."

And soon the joyful news spread over the town, and the bells stopped tolling and rang a joyful
peal.

"My beloved son!" cried the King, as he embraced him. "We thought thou wert lost for ever,
and we have mourned for thee day and night."

Without waiting to hear more, the Prince began to tell the King all his adventures, and how
the Princess of Bengal awaited him in the palace outside the gates.

"Let her be brought here instantly," cried the King, "and the marriage shall take place to-day."

Then he ordered that the Indian should be set free at once and allowed to depart with the Enchanted
Horse.

Great was the surprise of the Indian when, instead of having his head cut off as he had expected,
he was allowed to go free with his wonderful horse. He asked what adventures had befallen the
Prince, and when he heard of the Princess who was waiting in the palace outside the gates,
a wicked plan came into his head.

He took the Enchanted Horse, and went straight to the palace before the King's messengers could
reach it.

"Tell the Princess," he said to the slaves, "that the Prince of Persia has sent me to bring
her to his father's palace upon the Enchanted Horse."

The Princess was very glad when she heard this message, and she quickly made herself ready
to go with the messenger.

But alas! as soon as the Indian turned the peg and the horse flew through the air, she found
she was being carried off, far away from Persia and her beloved Prince.

All her prayers and entreaties were in vain. The Indian only mocked at her, and told her he
meant to marry her himself.

Meanwhile the Prince and his attendants had arrived at the palace outside the gates, only to
find that the Indian had been there before them and had carried off the Princess.

The Prince was nearly beside himself with grief, but he still hoped to find his bride. He disguised
himself as a dervish and set off to seek for her, vowing that he would find her, or perish
in the attempt.

By this time the Enchanted Horse had traveled many hundreds of miles. Then, as the Indian was
hungry, it was made to descend into a wood close to a town of Cashmere.

Here the Indian went in search of food, and when he returned with some fruit he shared it with
the Princess, who was faint and weary.

As soon as the Princess had eaten a little she felt stronger and braver, and as she heard horses
galloping past, she called out loudly for help.

The men on horseback came riding at once to her aid, and she quickly told them who she was,
and how the Indian had carried her off against her will. Then the leader of the horsemen, who
was the Sultan of Cashmere, ordered his men to cut off the Indian's head. But he placed the
Princess upon his horse and led her to his palace.

Now the Princess thought that her troubles were all at an end, but she was much mistaken. The
Sultan had no sooner seen her than he made up his mind to marry her, and he ordered the wedding
preparations to be begun without loss of time.

In vain the Princess begged to be sent back to Persia. The Sultan only smiled and fixed the
wedding-day. Then when she saw that nothing would turn him from his purpose, she thought of
a plan to save herself. She began talking all the nonsense she could think of and behaving
as if she were mad, and so well did she pretend, that the wedding was put off, and all the
doctors were called in to see if they could cure her.

But whenever a doctor came near the Princess she became so wild and violent that he dared not
even feel her pulse, so none of them discovered that she was only pretending.

The Sultan was in great distress, and sent far and near for the cleverest doctors. But none
of them seemed to be able to cure the Princess of her madness.

All this time the Prince of Persia was wandering about in search of his Princess, and when
he came to one of the great cities of India, he heard every one talking about the sad illness
of the Princess of Bengal who was to have married the Sultan. He at once disguised himself
as a doctor and went to the palace, saying he had come to cure the Princess.

The Sultan received the new doctor with joy, and led him at once to the room where the Princess
sat alone, weeping and wringing her hands.

"Your Majesty," said the disguised Prince, "no one else must enter the room with me, or the
cure will fail."

So the Sultan left him, and the Prince went close to the Princess, and gently touched her hand.

"My beloved Princess," he said, "dost thou not know me?"

As soon as the Princess heard that dear voice she threw herself into the Prince's arms, and
her joy was so great that she could not speak.

"We must at once plan our escape," said the Prince. "Canst thou tell me what has become of
the Enchanted Horse?"

"Naught can I tell thee of it, dear Prince," answered the Princess, "but since the Sultan knows
its value, no doubt he has kept it in some safe place."

"Then first we must persuade the Sultan that thou art almost cured," said the Prince. "Put
on thy costliest robes and dine with him to-night, and I will do the rest."

The Sultan was charmed to find the Princess so much better, and his joy knew no bounds when
the new doctor told him that he hoped by the next day to complete the cure.

"I find that the Princess has somehow been infected by the magic of the Enchanted Horse," he
said. "If thou wilt have the horse brought out into the great square, and place the Princess
upon its back, I will prepare some magic perfumes which will dispel the enchantment. Let all
the people be gathered together to see the sight, and let the Princess be arrayed in her richest
dress and decked with all her jewels."

So next morning the Enchanted Horse was brought out into the crowded square, and the Princess
was mounted upon its back. Then the disguised Prince placed four braziers of burning coals
round the horse and threw into them a perfume of a most delicious scent. The smoke of the perfume
rose in thick clouds, almost hiding the Princess, and at that moment the Prince leaped into
the saddle behind her, turned the peg, and sailed away into the blue sky.

But as he swept past the Sultan, he cried aloud, "Sultan of Cashmere, next time thou dost wish
to wed a Princess, ask her first if she be willing to wed thee."

So this was the manner in which the Prince of Persia carried off the Princess of Bengal for
the second time. The Enchanted Horse never stopped until it had carried them safely back to
Persia, and there they were married amid great rejoicings.

But what became of the Enchanted Horse? Ah! that is a question which no one can answer.

III

SINDBAD THE SAILOR

In the city of Bagdad, far away in Persia, there lived a poor man called Hindbad. He was a
porter, and one hot afternoon, as he was carrying a very heavy load, he stopped to rest in
a quiet street near a beautiful house which he had never seen before. The pavement outside
was sprinkled with rose-water, which felt very cool and pleasant to his hot, weary feet, and
from the open windows came the most delicious scents which perfumed all the air.

Hindbad wondered who lived in this beautiful house, and presently he went up to one of the
splendidly dressed servants, who was standing at the door, and asked to whom it belonged. The
servant stared in amazement.

"Dost thou indeed live in Bagdad and knowest not my master's name?" he said. "He is the great
Sindbad the Sailor, the man who has sailed all round the world, and who has had the most wonderful
adventures under the sun."

Now Hindbad had often heard of this wonderful man and of his great riches, and as he looked
at the beautiful palace and saw the splendidly dressed servants it made him feel sad and envious.
As he turned away sighing, to take up his load again, he looked up into the blue sky, and said
aloud:

"What a difference there is between this man's lot and mine. He has all that he wants, and
nothing to do but to spend money and enjoy a pleasant life, while I have to work hard to get
dry bread enough to keep myself and my children alive. What has he done that he should be so
lucky, and what have I done that I should be so miserable?"

Just then one of the servants touched him on the shoulder, and said to him: "My noble master
wishes to see thee, and has bidden me fetch thee to him."

The poor porter was frightened at first, for he thought some one might have overheard what
he had been saying, but the servant took his arm and led him into the great dining-hall. There
were many guests seated round the table, on which was spread a most delicious feast, and at
the head of the table sat a grave, stately old man with a long white beard. This was Sindbad
the Sailor. He smiled kindly on poor frightened Hindbad, and made a sign that he should come
and sit at his right hand. Then all the most delicious things on the table were offered by
the servants to Hindbad, and his glass was filled with the choicest wine, so that he began
to feel it must all be a dream.

But when the feast was over Sindbad turned to him and asked him what it was he had been saying
outside the window just before he came in.

Then Hindbad was very much ashamed, and hung his head as he answered: "My lord, I was tired
and ill-tempered, and I said foolish words, which I trust thou wilt now pardon."

"Oh," replied Sindbad, "I am not so unjust as to blame thee. I am indeed only sorry for thee.
But thou wert wrong in thinking that I have always led an easy life, and that these riches
came to me without trouble or suffering. I have won them by years of toil and danger."

Then turning to his other guests he said, "Yes, my friends, the tale of my adventures is enough
to warn every one of you never to go in search of wealth. I have never told you the story of
my voyages, but if you will listen I will begin this very night."

So the servants were ordered to carry home the porter's load, that he might stay in Sindbad's
palace that evening and listen to the story.

"My father left me a great deal of money when I was a young man, but I spent it so quickly
and foolishly that I began to see it would soon all be gone. This made me stop and think, for
I did not like the idea of being poor. So I counted up all the money that remained, and made
up my mind that I would trade with it. I joined a company of merchants, and we set sail in
a good ship, meaning to go from place to place, and sell or exchange our goods at whatever
towns we stopped. And so began my first voyage.

"For the first few days I could think of nothing but the heaving of the waves; but by and by
I began to feel better, and never again was I at all unhappy upon the sea. One afternoon, when
the wind had suddenly dropped and we were lying becalmed, we found ourselves near a little
low green island, which looked like a meadow, and only just showed above the sea. The captain
of the ship gave us permission to land, and presently we were all enjoying ourselves on the
green meadow. We walked about for some time and then sat down to rest, and some of us set to
work to light a fire, that we might make our evening meal.

"But scarcely had the fire begun to burn, when we heard loud shouts from the ship warning us
to come back at once, for what we had taken to be an island was indeed the back of a sleeping
whale. My companions all rushed to the boats, but before I could follow them the great monster
dived down and disappeared, leaving me struggling in the water.

"I clung to a piece of wood which we had brought from the ship to make the fire, and I could
only hope that I would soon be picked up by my companions. But alas! there was so much confusion
on board that no one missed me, and as a wind sprang up the captain set sail, and I was left
alone at the mercy of the waves.

"All night long I floated, and when morning came I was so tired and weak that I thought I must
die. But just then a great wave lifted me up and threw me against the steep side of an island,
and to my joy I managed to climb the cliff and rest on the green grass above.

"Soon I began to feel better, and as I was very hungry I went to look for something to eat.
I found some plants which tasted good, and a spring of clear water, and having made a good
meal, I walked about the island to see what I would find next.

"Before long I came to a great meadow where a horse was tied, and as I stood looking at it,
I heard men's voices which sounded as if they came from under the earth. Then from an underground
cave a man appeared, who asked me who I was and where I came from. He took me into the cave
where his companions were, and they told me they were the grooms belonging to the King of the
island, whose horses they brought to feed in the meadow. They gave me a good meal, and told
me it was very lucky that I had come just then, for next day, they meant to return to their
master, and would show me the way, which I could never have found for myself.

"So we set off together early next morning, and when we reached the city I was very kindly
received by the King. He listened to the story of my adventures, and then bade his servants
see that I wanted for nothing.

"As I was a merchant I took great interest in the shipping, and often went down to the quay
to see the boats unload. One day when I was looking over a cargo which had just been landed,
what was my astonishment to see a number of bales with my own name marked on them. I went at
once to the captain and asked him who was the owner of these bales of goods.

"'Ah!' replied the captain, 'they belonged to a merchant of Bagdad called Sindbad. But he,
alas! perished in a dreadful way soon after we sailed, for with a number of people belonging
to my ship he landed on what looked like a green island, but which was really the back of a
great sleeping whale. As soon as the monster felt the warmth of the fire which they had lighted
on his back, he woke up and dived below the sea. Many of my men were drowned, and among them
poor Sindbad. Now I mean to sell his goods that I may give the money to his relations when
I find them.'

"'Captain,' said I, 'these bales are mine, for I am that Sindbad who thou sayest was drowned.'

"'What wickedness there is in the world,' cried the captain. 'How canst thou pretend to be
Sindbad when I saw him drowned before my eyes?'

"But presently, when I had told him all that had happened to me, and when the other merchants
from the ship knew me to be the true Sindbad, he was overjoyed, and ordered that the bales
should be at once given to me.

"Now I was able to give the King a handsome present, and after I had traded with my goods for
sandal-wood, nutmegs, ginger, pepper and cloves, I set sail once more with the kind old captain.
On the way home I was able to sell all my spices at a good price, so that when I landed I found
I had a hundred thousand sequins.

"My family were delighted to see me again, and I soon bought some land and built a splendid
house, in which I meant to live happily and forget all the troubles through which I had passed."

Here Sindbad ended the story of his first voyage. He ordered the music to strike up and the
feast to go on, and when it was over he gave the poor porter Hindbad a hundred gold pieces
and told him to come back at the same time next evening if he wished to hear the tale of the
second voyage.

Hindbad went joyfully home, and you can imagine how happy the poor family were that night.

Next evening he set out once more for Sindbad's house, dressed in his best clothes. There he
enjoyed a splendid supper as before, and when it was over Sindbad said:

"I was very happy for some time at home, but before long I began to grow weary of leading an
idle life. I longed to be upon the sea again, to feel the good ship bounding over the waves,
and to hear the wind whistling through the rigging.

"So I set to work at once and bought all kinds of goods that I might sell again in foreign
lands, and then, having found a suitable ship, I set sail with other merchants, and so began
my second voyage.

"We stopped at many places, and sold our goods at a great profit, and all went well until one
day when we landed on a new island. It was a most beautiful place, fair as the garden of Eden,
where exquisite flowers made a perfect rainbow of color and delicious fruits hung in ripe clusters
above.

"Here, under the shadow of the tree, I sat down to rest and to feast my eyes upon all the loveliness
around. I ate the food I had brought with me, drank my wine, and then closed my eyes. The soft
music of the stream which flowed close by was like a song in my ears, and, before I knew what
I was doing, I fell asleep.

"I cannot tell how long I slept, but when at last I opened my eyes, I could not see my companions
anywhere, and when I looked towards the sea, to my horror I found the ship was gone. It was
sailing away, a white speck in the distance, and here was I, left alone upon this desert island.
I cried aloud and wrung my hands with grief, and wished with all my heart that I had stayed
safely at home. But what was the use of wishing that now?

"So I climbed into a high tree, and looked around to see if I could by any means find a way
of escape from the island. First I looked towards the sea, but there was no hope for me there,
and then I turned and looked inland. The first thing that caught my eye was a huge white dome,
that seemed to rise from the center of the island, unlike anything I had ever seen before.

"I climbed down the tree, and made my way towards the white dome as quickly as I could, but
when I reached it, it puzzled me more than ever. It was like a great smooth ball, much too
slippery to climb, and into it there was no door or entrance of any sort. I walked round and
round it, wondering what it could be, when suddenly a dark shadow fell upon everything and
it grew black as night.

"I gazed upwards in great fear, and knew that the shadow was cast by a great bird with outspread
wings hovering over the place where I stood and shutting out heaven's light. As I looked, it
suddenly came swooping down, and sat upon the white dome.

"Then it flashed into my mind that this must be the bird which I had heard sailors talk of,
called a roc, and the smooth white ball must be its egg.

"Quick as thought, I unbound my turban, and twisted it into a rope. Then I wound it round and
round my waist, and tied the two ends tightly round the roc's leg, which was close to where
I stood.

"'It will fly away soon, and carry me away with it off this desert island,' I said to myself
joyfully.

"And sure enough, before very long I felt myself lifted off the ground, and carried up and
up until it seemed as if we had reached the clouds. Then the huge bird began to sink down again,
and when it reached the ground I quickly untied my turban, and set myself free.

"I was so small, compared to the roc, that it had never even noticed me, but darted off towards
a great black object lying near, which it seized with its beak and carried off. Imagine my
horror when I looked again and saw other dark objects, and discovered that they were great
black snakes.

"Here was I, in a deep valley, with mountains rising sheer up on every side, and nothing to
be seen among the rocks but those terrible black snakes.

"'Oh!' I cried, 'why did I ever try to leave the desert island? I have indeed only come into
worse misfortune.'

"As I looked around, I noticed that the ground was strewn with sparkling stones, which seemed
to quiver with light, and when I looked nearer, I found they were diamonds of extraordinary
size, although lying about like common pebbles. At first I was delighted, but they soon ceased
to please me, for I feared each moment I might be seized by one of the terrible snakes.

"These snakes were so large that they could easily have swallowed an elephant, and although
they lay quiet during the day, and hid themselves for fear of the roc, at night they came out
in search of food. I managed to find a cave among the rocks before nightfall, and there I sat
in fear and trembling until morning, when I once more went out into the valley.

"As I sat thinking what I should do next, I saw a great piece of raw meat come bounding down
into the valley, from rock to rock. Then another piece followed, and another, until several
large pieces lay at my feet.

"Then I remembered a tale which travelers had told me about the famous Diamond Valley. They
said that every year, when the young eagles were hatched, merchants went to the heights above,
and rolled down great pieces of raw meat into the valley. The diamonds on which the meat fell
would often stick into the soft flesh, and then when the eagles came, and carried off the meat
to feed their young ones, the merchants would beat them off their nests, and take the diamonds
out of the meat.

"I had never believed this wonderful tale, but now indeed I knew it to be true, and felt sure
that I was in the famous Diamond Valley.

"I had quite given up all hope of escape, for there was no possible way of climbing out of
the valley, but as I watched the eagles carry off the lumps of raw meat, I thought of a plan,
and hope revived.

"First of all I searched around, and filled all my pockets with the biggest diamonds I could
find. Then I chose out the largest piece of meat and fastened myself securely to it, with the
rope made out of my turban. I knew that the eagles would soon come for more food, so I lay
flat on the ground, with the meat uppermost, and holding on tightly, I waited for what would
happen next. I had not long to wait before a gigantic eagle came swooping down. It seized the
meat and carried it and me swiftly up, until it reached its nest high among the mountain rocks.
And no sooner had it dropped me into the nest, than a man climbed out from behind the rock,
and with loud cries frightened the eagle away. Then this man, who was the merchant to whom
the nest belonged, came eagerly to look for his piece of meat. When he saw me, he started back
in surprise and anger.

"'What doest thou here?' he asked roughly. 'How dost thou dare to try and steal my diamonds?'

"'Have patience,' I answered calmly, 'I am no thief, and when thou hast heard my story thou
wilt pity and not blame me. As for diamonds, I have some here which will more than make up
to thee for thy disappointment.'

"Then I told him and the other merchants all my adventures, and they cast up their eyes to
heaven in surprise at my courage, and the wonderful manner in which I had managed to escape
so many dangers. Pulling out a handful of diamonds, I then passed the precious stones round
among them, and they all declared them to be the finest they had ever seen.

"'Thou shalt choose one, to make up for thy disappointment,' I said to the merchant who had
found me.

"'I will choose this small one,' he replied, picking out one of the least of the glistening heap.

"I urged him to take a larger one, but he only shook his head.

"'This one will bring me all the wealth I can desire,' he said, 'and I need no longer risk
my life seeking for more.'

"Then we all set off for the nearest port, where we found a ship ready to carry us home. We
had many adventures on the way, but at last we reached our journey's end, and when I had sold
my diamonds, I had so much money that I gave a great deal to the poor, and lived in even greater
splendor than before."

Here Sindbad paused, and ordered that another hundred gold pieces should be given to Hindbad,
and that he should depart. But next evening when the guests had all assembled and Hindbad had
also returned, Sindbad began once more to tell them a story of his adventures.

"This time," began Sindbad, "I stayed at home for the space of a whole year, and then I prepared
to set out on another voyage. My friends and relations did all in their power to prevent my
going, but I could not be persuaded, and before long I set sail in a ship which was about to
make a very long voyage.

"Nothing went well with us from the beginning. We were driven out of our course by storms and
tempests, and the captain and pilot knew not where we were. When at last they found out in
which direction we had drifted, things seemed in a worse state than ever. We were alarmed to
see the captain suddenly pull off his turban, tear the hair from his beard, and beat his head
as if he were mad.

"'What is the matter?' we asked, gathering round him.

"'Alas!' he cried, 'we are lost. The ship is now caught in a dangerous current from which nothing
can save her and us. In a very few moments we shall all be dashed to pieces.'

"No sooner had he spoken than the ship was carried along at a tremendous speed straight on
to a rocky shore which lay at the foot of a steep mountain.

"But although the ship was dashed to pieces, we all managed to escape, and were thrown with
our goods and some provisions high on to the rocky strip of shore. Here we found the scattered
remains of many wrecks, and quantities of bones bleached white in the sun.

"'We may prepare ourselves for death,' said the captain mournfully. 'No man has ever escaped
from this shore, for it is impossible to climb the mountain behind us, and no ship dare approach
to save us.'

"But nevertheless he divided the provisions among us, that we might live as long as possible.

"One thing that surprised me greatly was a river of fresh water which flowed out of the mountain,
and, instead of running into the sea, disappeared into a rocky cavern on the other side of
the shore. As I gazed into the mouth of this cavern I saw that it was lined with sparkling
gems, and that the bed of the river was studded with rubies and diamonds and all manner of
precious stones. Great quantities of these were also scattered around, and treasures from the
wrecked ships lay in every corner of the shore.

"One by one my companions died as they came to the end of their food, and one by one I buried
them, until at last I was left quite alone. I was able to live on very little, and so my food
had lasted longer.

"'Woe is me!' I cried, 'who shall bury me when I die? Why, oh! why was I not content to remain
safe and happy at home?'

"As I bemoaned my evil fate I wandered to the banks of the river, and as I watched it disappear
into the rocky cave a happy thought came to me. Surely if this stream entered the mountain
it must have an opening somewhere, and if I could only follow its course I might yet escape.

"Eagerly I began to make a strong raft of the wood and planks which were scattered all over
the shore. Then I collected as many diamonds and rubies and as much wrecked treasure as my
raft would hold, and took my last little store of food. I launched the raft with great care,
and soon found myself floating swiftly along until I disappeared into the dark passage of the
cavern.

"On and on I went through the thick darkness, the passage seeming to grow smaller and narrower
until I was obliged to lie flat on the raft for fear of striking my head. My food was now all
gone, and I gave myself up for lost, and then mercifully I fell into a deep sleep which must
have lasted many hours. I was awakened by the sound of strange voices, and jumping up, what
was my joy to find I was once more in heaven's sunshine.

"The river was flowing gently through a green, pleasant land, and the sounds I had heard were
the voices of a company of negroes who were gently guiding my raft to the bank.

"I could not understand the language these negroes spoke, until at last one of their number
began to speak to me in Arabic.

"Peace be to thee!' he said. 'Who art thou, and whence hast thou come? We are the people of
this country, and were working in our fields when we found thee asleep upon the raft. Tell
us, then, how thou hast come to this place.'

"I pray thee, by Allah." I cried, 'give me food, and then I will tell thee all.'

"Then the men gave me food, and I ate until my strength returned and my soul was refreshed,
and I could tell them of all my adventures.

"'We must take him to the King,' they cried with one voice.

"Then they told me that the King of Serendib was the richest and greatest king on earth, and
I went with them willingly, taking with me my bales and treasures.

"Never had I seen such splendor and richness as at the court of the King of Serendib, and great
was his kindness towards me. He listened to the tale of my adventures with interest, and when
I begged to be allowed to return home, he ordered that a ship should be made ready at once.
Then he wrote a letter with his own hand to the Caliph, our sovereign lord, and loaded me with
costly gifts.

"Thus, when I arrived at Bagdad, I went at once to the court of the Caliph, and presented the
letter and the gift which the King had sent.

"This gift was a cup made out of a single ruby lined inside with precious stones, also a skin
of the serpent that swallows elephants, which had spots upon its back like pieces of gold,
and which could cure all illnesses.

"The Caliph was delighted with the letter and the gift.

"'Tell me, O Sindbad,' he said, 'is this King as great and rich as it is reported of him?'

"'O my Lord,' I said, 'no words can give you an idea of his riches. His throne is set upon
a huge elephant and a thousand horsemen ride around him, clad in cloth of gold. His mace is
of gold studded with emeralds, and indeed his splendor is as great as that of King Solomon.'

"The Caliph listened attentively to my words, and then, giving me a present, he allowed me
to depart. I returned home swiftly to my family and friends, and when I had sold my treasures
and given much to the poor, I lived in such peace and happiness that my evil adventures soon
seemed like a far-off dream."

So Sindbad finished the story, and bade his guests return the next evening as usual. And next
day, when all the guests were once more seated at the table and had finished their feasting,
Sindbad began the story of his last voyage.

"I had now made up my mind that nothing would tempt me to leave my home again, and that I would
seek for no more adventures.

"One day, however, as I was feasting with my friends, one of my servants came to tell me that
a messenger from the Caliph awaited my pleasure.

"'What is thy errand?' I asked when the messenger was presented to me.

"'The Caliph desires thy presence at once,' answered the messenger.

"Thus was I obliged to set out immediately for the palace.

"'Sindbad,' said the Caliph, when I had bowed myself to the ground before him, 'I have need
of thy services. I desire to send a letter and a gift to the King of Serendib, and thou shalt
be the bearer of them.'

"Then indeed did my face fall, and I became pale as death.

"'Commander of the Faithful,' I cried, 'do with me as thou wilt, but I have made a vow never
to leave my home again.'

"Then I told him all my adventures, which caused him much astonishment. Nevertheless, he urged
me to do as he wished, and seeing that there was no escape, I consented.

"I set sail at the Caliph's command, and after a good voyage I at last reached the island of
Serendib, where I received a hearty welcome. I told the officers of the court what my errand
was, and they led me to the palace, where I bowed myself to the ground before the great King.

"'Sindbad,' he said kindly, 'thou art welcome. I have often thought of thee, and wished to
see thy face again.'

"So I presented the Caliph's letter, and the rich present he had sent, which pleased the King
well. When a few days had passed, I begged to be allowed to depart, and after receiving many
gifts I once more set sail for home.

"But alas! the return journey began badly. We had not sailed many days, when we were pursued
by pirates, who captured the ship, and took prisoners all those who were not killed. I, among
others, was carried ashore and sold by a pirate to a rich merchant.

"'What is thy trade?' asked the merchant when he had bought me.

"'I am a merchant,' I answered, 'and know no trade.'

"'Canst thou shoot with a bow and arrow?' asked my master.

"This I said I could do, and putting one in my hand he led me out to a great forest and bade
me climb into a high tree.

"'Watch there,' he said, 'until thou shalt see a herd of elephants pass by. Then try to shoot
one, and if thou art fortunate, come at once and tell me.'

"All night I watched, and saw nothing, but in the morning a great number of elephants came
thundering by, and I shot several arrows among them. One big elephant fell to the ground, and
lay there while the rest passed on; so, as soon as it was safe, I climbed down and carried
the news to my master. Together we buried the huge animal and marked the place, so that we
might return to fetch the tusks.

"I continued this work for some time, and killed many elephants, until one night I saw to my
horror that the elephants, instead of passing on, had surrounded the tree in which I sat, and
were stamping and trumpeting, until the very earth shook. Then one of them seized the tree
with his trunk, and tore it up by the roots, laying it flat on the ground.

"I was almost senseless with terror, but the next moment I felt myself gently lifted up by
an elephant's trunk, and placed on his back. I clung on with all my might, as the elephant
carried me through the forest, until at last we came to the slope of a hill, which was covered
with bleached bones and tusks.

"Here the elephant gently laid me down, and left me alone. I gazed around on this great treasure
of ivory, and I could not help wondering at the wisdom of these animals. They had evidently
brought me here to show me that I could get ivory without killing any more of their number.
For this, I felt sure, was the elephants' burying-place.

"I did not stay long on the hill, but gathering a few tusks together I sped back to the town,
that I might tell my tale to the merchant. 'My poor Sindbad,' he cried, when he saw me, I thought
thou wert dead, for I found the uprooted tree, and never expected to look upon thy face again.'

"Great was his delight when I told him of the Hill of Ivory, and when we had gone there together,
and he saw for himself the wonders I had described, he was filled with astonishment.

"'Sindbad,' he cried, 'thou too shalt have a share of this great wealth. And first of all I
shall give thee thy, freedom. Until now, year by year have all my slaves been killed by the
elephants, but now we need no longer run any risks, for here is ivory enough to enrich the
whole island.'

"So I was set free, and loaded with honors, and when the trade winds brought the ships that
traded in ivory, I bade good-by to the island, and set sail for home, carrying with me a great
cargo of ivory and other treasures.

"As soon as I landed I went to the Caliph, who was overjoyed to see me.

"'Great has been my anxiety, O Sindbad,' he said, 'for I feared some evil had befallen thee.'

"When, therefore, I had told him of my adventures, he was the more astonished, and ordered
that all my story should be written in letters of gold, and placed among his treasures.

"Then I returned to my own house, and ever since have remained at home in peace and safety."

Thus Sindbad finished the story of his voyages, and turning to Hindbad, he said: "And now,
friend Hindbad, what dost thou think of the way I have earned my riches? Is it not just that
I should live in enjoyment and ease?"

"O my lord," cried Hindbad, bowing before Sindbad, and kissing his hand, "great have been thy
labors and perils, and truly dost thou deserve thy riches. My troubles are as nothing compared
to thine. Long mayest thou live and prosper!"

Suddenly through the dim woods he saw a light, as if the golden sun and silver moon shone both
together.

And, lo! in the radiance of this light there stood before him the three fairest of the godesses--queenly
Hera, wise Athene, and lovely Aphrodite.

Like music stealing through the trees came the soft voice of Hera:

"Of all mortal men thou art the most beautiful, Paris, and to thee do we come for judgment.
Tell us which of us is the fairest of all, and to that one whom thou so deemest, give this
golden apple."

So spake Hera, and placed in the hand of Paris an apple of purest gold.

Again she spake: "If to me, Hera, queen of goddesses, and wife of mighty Zeus, king of all
the gods, thou dost grant the prize of loveliness, Power immeasurable shall be thine. King
shalt thou be of the lands where the gray dawn rises, and king even to where the red sun goes
down. A hundred peoples shall call thee lord."

She was silent, and the voice of Athene, fair and pure as a silver moonbeam, broke the stillness
of the starless night.

"To me award the prize," she said, "and wise as the gods shalt thou be. With me as thy friend
and guide, all things will be possible to thee."

Last of all, standing in a rosy light, as of the dawning sunlight in the spring, spoke Aphrodite.

"What are Power and Wisdom, fair Paris?" she pled. "Wisdom and Power bring no joy at last.
I will give thee Love, and for thy wife thou shalt have the fairest woman in all the world."

And Paris, the melody of her voice still in his ears, as he gazed spellbound on her face of
wondrous beauty, handed to Aphrodite the golden prize.

So was it that the wrath of the gods came upon Paris, son of Priam. For Hera and Athene, filled
with rage, vowed to be revenged upon Paris and all his race, and made all the gods pledge themselves
to aid them in their vengeance.

Across far seas sailed Paris, with Aphrodite as his guide, to Sparta, where Menelaus was king.

A brave king was Menelaus, and happily he lived in his kingdom with Helen, his queen, fairest
of all women. One child they had, a little maid, Hermione.

When to Sparta there came Paris, with eyes blue as the sea, and hair that gleamed like gold
on his purple robe, gallant and brave, and more beautiful than any mortal man, glad was the
welcome that he had from Menelaus.

And when Paris gazed on Helen's face, he knew that in all the world there was no woman half
so fair as the wife of Menelaus.

Then did Aphrodite cast her magic upon Helen.

No longer did she love her husband, nor did she remember little Hermione, her own dear child.

When Paris spoke to her words of love, and begged her to flee with him, and to be his wife,
she knew only that she loved Paris more than all else. Gladly she went with him, and in his
red-prowed ship together they sailed across the green waves to Troyland, where Mount Ida showed
her snowy crown high above the forests.

An angry man was Menelaus when he found that Paris had stolen from him the fair wife who was
to him as his own heart.

To his elder brother Agamemnon, overlord of all the Greeks, he went and told his grievous tale.

And from far and wide did the Greek hosts gather, until a hundred thousand men and eleven hundred
fourscore and six ships were ready to cross the seas to Troyland.

Many were the heroes who sailed away from Greece to punish Paris and his kin, and to bring
back fair Helen to her own land.

Few there were who came home, for ten long years of woe and of spilling of blood came to the
men of Greece and of Troy from the fatal beauty of Helen the queen.

II

THE COUNCIL

That night both gods and men slept long; only Zeus, king of the gods, lay wakeful, pondering
in his heart how best he might do honor to Achilles. "I shall send a Dream to beguile Agamemnon,"
at length he resolved.

Then did he call to a Dream, for by Dreams the gods sent their messages to mortal men.

"Go now, thou evil Dream," said Zeus, "go to where Agamemnon sleeps in his tent near to his
fleet ships, and tell him every word as I shall tell it thee. Bid him call to arms with speed
his warriors, for now he shall take the strong city of Troy."

To the tent of Agamemnon sped the Dream. Taking the form of the old warrior who had striven
to make peace between Agamemnon and Achilles, the Dream stooped over the sleeping warrior,
and thus to him it spoke:

"Sleepest thou, Agamemnon? Ill fits it for the overlord of so mighty a host to sleep all through
the night. From Zeus I come, and to thee he sends this message: 'Call to arms with speed thy
warriors, Agamemnon, for now shalt thou take the strong city of Troy.'"

Off then sped the Dream, winging its way like a strip of gray mist aloft to Mount Olympus.

Then Agamemnon awoke from sleep, and the voice of the Dream still rang in his ears.

Speedily he arose from his bed, donned his fair tunic, cast around him his great cloak, and
bound his sandals on his feet. Then over his shoulder he cast his silver-studded sword, and
with the scepter of his house, token of his overlordship, in his hand, he went down to where
the Greek ships lay, and called a council together.

To his lords he told what had befallen him as they slept.

"Call to arms!" had been the message from Zeus. "Call to arms! for victory shall be thine."

Then said the old warrior in whose likeness the Dream had come:

"My friends, had any other told us this dream we might deem it false; but to our overlord the
Dream hath come. Let us then call our men to arms."

So did all the lords follow his counsel, and quickly did the Greeks obey their summons. Like
bees that pour from out their nests in some hollow rock, and fly to where the spring flowers
grow most sweet, even so did the warriors pour forth from their ships and their huts by the
sea. Loudly they shouted as they came, till all the earth echoed. Nine heralds sought to quiet
them, but it was long before they would cease their noise, and sit silent to listen to the
voice of Agamemnon their lord.

Then did Agamemnon prove his people. "Ill hath Zeus dealt with us, my friends," he said. "To
us he promised ere we sailed hither that victory should be ours. But nine years have passed
away, and our ships' timbers have rotted, and the rigging is worn. In our halls our wives and
children still sit awaiting us, yet are we no nearer victory than we were on the day that we
came hither. Come then, let us flee with our ships to our dear native land, for never shall
Troy be ours."

So spake Agamemnon, and stirred the hearts of all that had not heard his secret council.

As the high sea-waves are swayed by the winds that rush upon them from the east and from the
south, even so the Greek host was swayed. And even as the west wind sweeps over a cornfield
and all the ears bow down before the blast, so were the warriors stirred.

Shouting, they hastened down to their ships. And the dust rose up in clouds from under their
hurrying feet.

Quickly did they prepare their ships, and gladly did they make them ready to sail homeward
across the bright salt sea.

Then would the Greeks have returned, even though fate willed it not. But Hera spoke to Athene.

"Shall we indeed allow the Greeks thus to flee homeward?" she cried. "Shame it will be to us
if Helen is left, in Troy, and Paris goes unpunished. Haste, then, and with thy gentle words
hold back the men from setting forth in their ships for their own homeland."

Down from the peaks of Olympus darted the bright-eyed Athene, clown to where the dark ships
were being dragged to the launching ways.

By his ship stood Odysseus of the many devices, and heavy of heart was he.

As one who speaks aloud the thoughts of another, so then to Odysseus spake the fair goddess
who was ever his guide.

"Will ye indeed fling yourselves upon your ships and flee homeward to your own land?" she said.
"Will brave Odysseus leave Helen, for whose sake so many Greeks have died, to be the boast
of the men of Troy? Hasten, then, and suffer not the Greeks to drag their ships down to the sea."

At the sound of the voice of Athene, Odysseus cast away his mantle and ran to meet Agamemnon.
From him he received the scepter of overlordship, and bearing it he went among the ships.

Whenever he saw a chief, he would say to him with gentle words:

"Good sir, it fits thee ill to be a coward. Stay, now, for thou knowest not what is the will
of Agamemnon. He is only making trial of thee. Hold back then thy people, and anger him not."

But when Odysseus met a common man hasting to the ships, with his scepter he smote him, saying:

"Sit still, sir, and listen to the words of thy betters. No warrior art thou, but a weakling.
One king only hath Zeus given to us. Hearken then to the will of Agamemnon!"

Thus did Odysseus rule the people, driving them back from the ships to where sat Agamemnon.

And the noise they made in returning was as the noise of mighty waves of the sea, when they
crash upon the beach and drive their roaring echoes far abroad.

Silence came upon them as they sat themselves down before Agamemnon and their lords. Upon all
but one did silence fall. Thersites, bandy-legged, round-shouldered, lame of one foot, with
ugly head covered with scanty stubble, most ill-favored of all men in the host, would not hold
his peace.

Shrilly he poured his upbraidings upon Agamemnon.

"What lackest thou now?" he cried. "Surely thy huts are full of the spoils we have brought
to thee each time we have taken a town. What more dost thou want? Soft fools, women, not men,
are ye Greeks, else would ye return home now with the ships, and leave this fellow here in
Troyland gorging himself on the spoils for which he himself hath never fought. To brave Achilles
hath he done dishonor, a far better man than he!"

Straight to the side of Thersites came the goodly Odysseus.

"Hold thy peace," he sternly said. "Plainly I tell thee that if ever again I find thee raving
as thou hast raved now, I myself will strip off thy mantle and tunic, with shameful blows beat
thee out of the assembly, and send thee back weeping to the ships."

So spake Odysseus, and with his scepter smote Thersites on his back and shoulders. And Thersites
bowed down, and big tears fell from his eyes, and a bloody weal from the golden scepter stood
up from his back. Amazed he sat down, and in pain and amazement he wiped away a tear. The others,
though they were sorry, laughed at his bewilderment.

"Many are the good deeds of Odysseus," said they, "but never did he do a better deed than when
he stopped the tongue of this prating railer."

Then spake Odysseus, scepter in hand.

"Surely it is the wish of the Greeks to make thee the most despised of all kings, great Agamemnon,"
he said, "for like young children or mourning women do they wail that they must go home. Nine
years have we stayed in this land, and small wonder is it that we long for our homes again.
Yet shameful would it be to wait so long and to return with empty hands. Be of good heart,
my friends, and wait a little, for surely Troy shall be ours. Do ye forget, on the day that
we set sail for Troyland, the mighty portent that we saw? As we offered sacrifices to the gods
beneath a fair plane-tree whence flowed clear water, a snake, blood-red on the back and dreadful
to look upon, glided from beneath the altar and darted to the tree. On the tree's topmost bough
was a sparrow's nest, and in it eight tender nestlings, over which the mother bird spread her
wings. Pitifully did the little ones cheep as the snake swallowed them all, and pitifully cried
the mother as she fluttered over her nestlings. But of her, too, did the snake lay hold, coiling
himself round her and crushing her life out. Then did the god who sent this sign show us that
a sign from the gods in truth it was, for he turned the snake into stone. And Chalcas, our
soothsayer, told us then the meaning of the sign. 'Nine years,' said he--for nine birds did
the snake slay--'shall ye fight in Troyland, but in the tenth year the city shall fall before
you.' So then, let us abide here, until we have taken the great city!"

When Odysseus had ceased to speak, the Greeks shouted aloud, until the ships echoed the praises
of the goodly Odysseus.

Then said Agamemnon:

"Go now, all of you, and eat, that ye may be ready for battle. Let each man sharpen well his
spear and see to his shield, and see to it that the horses are well fed and the chariots prepared.
And whomsoever I see minded to stay far away from the fight, beside the ships here by the sea,
for him shall there be no hope hereafter, but he shall be food for dogs and for birds of prey."

And when Agamemnon had spoken, the shouts of the Greeks were as the thunder of mighty breakers
on a reef when the winds blow high.

Quickly then they scattered, and kindled fires, and made their evening meal, and offered sacrifices
to the gods, praying for escape from death in the coming battle.

To Zeus did Agamemnon offer his sacrifice and to the mighty god he prayed:

"Great Zeus, god of the storm-cloud, let not the sun set nor the darkness fall until I have
laid low the palaces of Troy and burned down its walls with fire."

So he prayed, but as yet Zeus heeded not his prayer. Then did the Greeks gather themselves
together to battle, and among them went the bright-eyed Athene, urging on each one, and rousing
in each man's heart the joy of strength and of battle.

As the red and golden blaze of a fire that devours a mighty forest is seen from afar, so was
seen from afar the dazzling gleam of their bronze armor as they marched.

Like wild geese and cranes and swans that in long-drawn strings fly tirelessly onward, so poured
they forth, while the earth echoed terribly under the tread of men and horses.

As flies that swarm in the spring when the herdsmen's milk-pails are full, so did the Greeks
throng to battle, unnumbered as the leaves and the flowers upon which they trod in the flowery
plain by the banks of the river Scamander.

III

THE FIGHT BETWEEN PARIS AND MENELAUS

To meet the great Greek host came the men of Troy. With loud shouting and clamor they came,
noisy as the flocks of cranes that fly to far-off seas before the coming of winter and sudden rain.

But in silence marched the Greeks, shoulder to shoulder, their hearts full of courage.

Like the mist that rolls from the crest of the mountains until no man can see in front of him
further than the cast of a stone, so did the dust rise in clouds under the tread of the warriors'
feet as they marched across the plain.

Front to front did the two armies stand at last, and from the Trojan ranks strode forth Paris
the godlike, he who robbed Menelaus of her who was to him most dear.

From the shoulders of Paris swung a panther's skin. He bore a curved bow and sword, and, brandishing
two bronze-headed spears, he challenged all the chieftains of the Greek host to fight him,
man to man, in mortal fight.

As a hungry lion rejoices to see a great-horned stag coming to be his prey, even so did Menelaus
rejoice when he saw Paris, the golden-haired and blue-eyed, stride proudly forth.

Straightway, in his armor, did Menelaus leap from his chariot to the ground.

But when Paris saw him to whom he had done so sore a wrong, his heart was smitten.

As a man who, in a mountain glen, suddenly sees a deadly snake and shrinks away from it with
shaking limbs, even so did Paris shrink back among his comrades.

Scornfully did Hector his brother behold him.

"Fair in face thou art!" said Hector, "but shamed I am by thee! I ween these long-haired Greeks
make sport of us because we have for champion one whose face and form are beautiful, but in
whose heart is neither strength nor courage. Art thou a coward? and yet thou daredst to sail
across the sea and steal from her husband the fair woman who hath brought us so much harm.
Thou shalt see what sort of warrior is he whose lovely wife thou hast taken. Thy harp and thy
golden locks and fair face, and all the graces given to thee by Aphrodite, shall count for
little when thou liest in the dust! Cowards must we Trojans be, else thou hadst been stoned
to death ere this, for all the evil thou hast wrought."

Then answered Paris:

"No word hast thou said that I do not deserve, brave Hector. Yet scorn not the gifts of golden
Aphrodite, for by his own desire can no man win the love and beauty that the goddess gives.
But let me now do battle with Menelaus. Make the Trojans and the men of Greece sit down, while
Menelaus and I fight for Helen. Let him who is conqueror have her and all that is hers for
his own, and let the others take an oath of friendship so that the Greeks may depart in peace
to their own land, and in peace the Trojans dwell in Troy."

Greatly did Hector rejoice at his brother's word. His spear grasped by the middle, he went
through the Trojan ranks and bid the warriors hold back.

But as he went, the Greeks shot arrows at brave Hector and cast stones.

"Hold! hold! ye Greeks," called Agamemnon. "Hector of the glancing helm hath somewhat to say
to us."

In silence, then, the two armies stood, while Hector told them the words of Paris his brother.

When they had heard him, Menelaus spoke:

"Many ills have ye endured," he said, "for my sake and because of the sins of Paris. Yet now,
I think, the end of this long war hath come. Let us fight, then, and death and fate shall decide
which of us shall die. Let us offer sacrifice now to Zeus, and call hither Priam, King of Troy.
I fear for the faith of his sons, Paris and Hector, but Priam is an old man and will not break
faith."

Then were the Greeks and the Trojans glad. They came down from their chariots, and took off
their arms, and laid them on the ground, while heralds went to tell Priam and to fetch lambs
and a ram for the sacrifice.

While they went, Hera sent to Troy Iris, her messenger, in the guise of the fairest daughter
of Priam.

To the hall where Helen sat came lovely Iris. And there she found Helen, fairest of women,
her white arms swiftly moving back and forward as she wove a great purple web of double wool,
and wrought thereon pictures of many battles of the Greeks and the men of Troy.

"Come hither, dear lady," said Iris, "and see a wondrous thing. For they that so fiercely fought
with each other, now sit in silence. The battle is stayed; they lean upon their shields, and
their tall spears are thrust in the earth by their sides. But for thee are Menelaus and Paris
now going to fight, and thou shalt be the wife of the conqueror."

So spake lovely Iris, and into the sleeping heart of Helen there came remembrance, and a hungry
longing for her old home, and for Menelaus, and her father and mother, and for little Hermione,
her child.

The tears rolled down her cheeks, but quickly she hid her face with a veil of fair linen, and
hastened out, with her two handmaidens, to the place where the two armies lay.

At the Scæan gates sat Priam and other old warriors.

As Helen, in her fair white robes, drew near, the old men marveled at her loveliness.

"Small wonder is it," said they, "that Trojans and Greeks should suffer hardships and lay down
their lives for one so beautiful. Yet well would it be for her to sail away upon the Greek
ships rather than stay here to bring trouble upon us now, and upon our children hereafter."

Then Priam called to Helen:

"Come hither, dear child, and sit beside me, that thou may'st see the man who once was thy
husband, and thy kinsmen, and thy friends. No blame do I give to thee for all our woes, but
only to the gods who have chosen thee to be the cause of all this bloodshed."

Then did Priam ask her the names of the mighty heroes who stood by their spears in the Grecian
ranks, and Helen, making answer to him, said:

"Dear father of Paris, my lord, would that I had died ere I left my own land and my little
child, and all those that I loved, and followed thy son hither. Agamemnon, a goodly king and
a mighty spearsman, is the Greek warrior whose name thou dost ask. Brother of him who was my
husband is he. Ah! shameless me, who did leave mine own."

Of Odysseus also, and of many another warrior of great stature and brave looks, did Priam make
inquiry. And Helen told him all she knew, while tears of longing stood in her eyes.

"My two brethren, Castor, tamer of horses, and Polydeuces, the skilful boxer, I do not see,"
she said; "mayhap they have not crossed the sea." For she knew not that her two brothers lay
dead in her own beautiful land.

Then was the sacrifice to Zeus offered, and the vows made between Agamemnon and Priam, King
of Troy.

When the sacrifice and vows were accomplished, Priam in haste mounted his chariot and drove away.

"Verily will I return to windy Ilios," said the old man, "for I cannot bear to watch the fight
between Menelaus and my own dear son. But only Zeus and the gods know which one of them is
to fall."

Then Hector and Odysseus marked out a space for the fight, and into a bronze helmet Hector
placed two pebbles and shook them in the helmet, looking behind him. And the pebble of Paris
leapt out the first, so that to him fell the lot to cast first his spear of bronze.

Then did Paris arm himself. Greaves of beauteous fashioning he placed upon his legs, and fastened
them with silver ankle-clasps. Over his shoulders he put his silver-studded sword of bronze
and his great shield. On his head he placed a helmet with nodding crest of horsehair, and in
his hand he grasped his strong spear. In like manner did Menelaus arm himself.

One moment did they stand face to face, wrath and hatred in their hearts, their spears gripped
firm in their hands.

Then did Paris hurl his spear and smite the shield of Menelaus. But the shield was strong and
the spear could not pierce it.

His hand lifted up for the cast, Menelaus looked upwards and called to Zeus.

"Grant me revenge, great Zeus!" he cried. "On him that hath done me grievous wrong, grant me
vengeance, so that all men hereafter may shudder to wrong one who hath treated him as his honored
guest."

Then hurled he his mighty spear. Through the bright shield it went, and through the shining
breastplate, tearing the tunic of Paris on his thigh. But Paris swerved aside, and so escaped
death.

Then Menelaus drew his silver-studded sword and drove it crashing down upon the helmet of Paris.
But in four pieces was the sword shattered, and fell from the hand of Menelaus.

"Surely art thou the most cruel of all the gods, Zeus!" angrily he cried. "My spear is cast
in vain, and my sword shattered, and my vengeance is still to come!"

So saying, he leapt upon Paris. By the crest on his helmet he seized him, and, swinging him
round, he dragged him towards the Greek host. The embroidered strap beneath the helmet of Paris
strangled him, and so he would have shamefully died, had not Aphrodite marked his plight. Swiftly
did she burst the leather strap, and the helmet was left empty in the grasp of Menelaus.

Casting the empty helmet, with a swing, to his comrades, Menelaus sprang back, ready, with
another spear, to slay his enemy.

But Aphrodite snatched Paris up, and in thick mist she hid him, and bore him away to his own
home. Like a wild beast Menelaus strode through the host, searching for him. But no Trojan
would have hidden him, for with a bitter hatred did the men of Troy hate Paris, most beautiful
of mortal men.

Then said Agamemnon:

"Hearken to me, ye Trojans. Now hath Menelaus gained the victory. Give us back Helen, and all
that is hers, and pay me the recompense that ye owe me for all the evil days that are gone."

So spake he, and glad were the shouts of the Greeks as they heard the words of their king.

IV

HECTOR AND ANDROMACHE

From where the battle still raged went Hector, son of Priam. At the oak-tree by the gates of
Troy there came running to meet him wives and daughters of those who fought. For eagerly did
they long for tidings of many a warrior who now lay dead on the field.

When he reached the beautiful, many-pillared palace of his father, his mother came to meet him.

His hand she took in hers, and gently spoke she to him.

"Art thou wearied that thou hast left the battle, Hector, my son?" she said. "Let me bring
thee wine that thou may'st be refreshed and yet gain strength."

"Bring me no wine, dear mother," said Hector, "lest it take from me the strength and courage
that I have. Rather go thou to the temple of Athene and offer her sacrifices, beseeching that
she will have mercy on Troy and on the wives of the Trojans and their little children. So may
she hold back Diomedes the destroyer. I go to Paris--would that he were dead!"

And the mother of Hector straightway, with other old women, the mothers of heroes, offered
sacrifices and prayers to Athene. But Athene paid no heed.

To the palace of Paris, his mighty bronze spear in his hand, then strode Hector.

Paris, the golden-haired, sat in a room with Helen, idly handling his shining shield and breastplate
and curved bow.

In bitter scorn spoke Hector to his brother.

"Our people die in battle for thy sake!" he cried, "while here thou sittest idle. Up then,
ere the enemies that thou hast made for us burn our city to the ground!"

And Paris answered:

"Justly dost thou chide me, Hector. Even now hath Helen urged me to play the man and go back
to battle. Only let me put on my armor, and soon will I overtake thee."

Never a word did Hector answer him.

But to Hector did Helen then speak:

"Brother Hector," she said, "unworthy am I to be sister of thine. Would that I had died on
the day I was born, or would that the gods who have brought me this evil had given me for a
husband one who was shamed by reproach and who feared dishonor. Rest thee here, my brother,
who hast suffered so much for the sake of wretched me and for the sin of Paris. Well I know
that for us cometh punishment of which men will sing in the far-off years that are yet to come."

"Of thy love, ask me not to stay, Helen," answered Hector. "For to help the men of Troy is
my whole heart set, and they are now in want of me. But rouse this fellow, and make him hasten
after me. I go now to see my dear wife and my babe, for I know not whether I shall return to
them again."

In his own house Hector found not his fair wife Andromache, nor their little babe.

"Whither went thy mistress?" he asked in eagerness of the serving-women.

"Truly, my lord," answered one, "tidings came to us that the Trojans were sorely pressed and
that with the Greeks was the victory. So then did Andromache, like one frenzied, hasten with
her child and his nurse to the walls that she might see somewhat of what befell. There, on
the tower, she stands now, weeping and wailing."

Back through the streets by which he had come then hastened Hector. And as he drew near the
gates, Andromache, who had spied him from afar, ran to meet him.

As, hand clasped in hand, Andromache and Hector stood, Hector looked silently at the beautiful
babe in his nurse's arms, and smiled.

Astyanax, "The City King," those of Troy called the child, because it was Hector his father
who saved the city.

Then said Andromache:

"Dear lord, thy courage will bring thee death. Hast thou no pity for this babe nor for thy
wife, who so soon shall be thy widow? Better would it be for me to die if to thee death should
come. For if I lose thee, then sorrow must for evermore be mine. No father nor mother have
I, and on one day were my seven brothers slain. Father and mother and brother art thou to me,
Hector, and my dear loved husband as well. Have pity now, and stay with thy wife and thy little
child."

"All these things know I well, my wife," answered Hector, "but black shame would be mine were
I to shrink like a coward from battle. Ever it hath been mine to be where the fight was fiercest,
and to win glory for my father's name, and for my own. But soon will that glory be gone, for
my heart doth tell me that Troy must fall. Yet for the sorrows of the Trojans, and of my own
father and mother and brethren, and of the many heroes that must perish, grieve I less bitterly
than for the anguish that must come upon thee on that day when thou no longer hast a husband
to fight for thee and a Greek leads thee away a prisoner. May the earth be heaped up high above
me ere I hear thy crying, Andromache!"

So spake Hector, and stretched out his arms to take his boy.

But from his father's bronze helmet with its fiercely nodding plume of horsehair the babe shrank
back in terror and hid his face in his nurse's breast. Then did the little City King's father
and his sweet mother laugh aloud, and on the ground Hector laid his helmet, and taking his
little son in his arms he kissed him and gently dandled him. And as he did so, thus Hector
prayed to Zeus and all the gods:

"O Zeus and all ye gods, grant that my son may be a brave warrior and a great king in Troyland.
Let men say of him when he returns from battle, 'Far greater is he than his father,' and may
he gladden his mother's heart."

Then did Hector lay his babe in Andromache's arms, and she held him to her bosom, smiling through
her tears.

Full of love and pity and tenderness was the heart of Hector, and gently he caressed her and said:

"Dear one, I pray thee be not of over-sorrowful heart. No man shall slay me ere the time appointed
for my death hath come. Go home and busy thyself with loom and distaff and see to the work
of thy maidens. But war is for us men, and of all those who dwell in Troyland, most of all for me."

So spake Hector, and on his head again he placed his crested helmet. And his wife went home,
many times looking back to watch him she loved going forth to battle, with her eyes half blinded
by her tears.

Not far behind Hector followed Paris, his armor glittering like the sun, and with a laugh on
the face that was more full of beauty than that of any other man on earth. Like a noble charger
that has broken its bonds and gallops exultingly across the plain, so did Paris stride onward.

"I fear I have delayed thee," he said to his brother when he overtook him.

"No man can speak lightly of thy courage," answered Hector, "only thou hast brought shame on
thyself by holding back from battle. But now let us go forward, and may the gods give the Greeks
into our hands."

So went Hector and Paris together into battle, and many a Greek fell before them on that day.

V

HOW PATROCLUS FOUGHT AND DIED

While round the dark ships of Greece the fierce fight raged, Achilles, from afar, listened
unmoved to the din of battle, and watched with stony eyes the men of Greece as they fell and
died on the reddened ground.

To him came Patroclus.

"Why dost thou weep, Patroclus?" asked Achilles. "Like a fond little maid art thou that runs
by her mother's side, plucking at her gown, hindering her as she walks, and with tearful eyes
looking up at her until the mother lifts her in her arms. Like her, Patroclus, dost thou softly
weep."

Then Patroclus, heavily groaning, made answer:

"Among the ships lie the bravest and best of the men of Greece, sore wounded or dead. Pitiless
art thou, Achilles, pitiless and unforgiving. Yet if thou dost still hold back from the battle,
give me, I pray thee, thine armor, and send me forth in thy stead. Perchance the Trojans may
take me for the mighty Achilles, and even now the victory be ours."

Then said Achilles, and heavy was his heart within him:

"These Greeks took from me my well-won prize, Patroclus. Yet let the past be past; no man may
keep his anger for ever. I have said that until the men of Troy come to burn my own ships I
will hold me back from the battle. But take you my armor; lead my men in the fight, and drive
from the ships the men of Troy. But to others leave it to chase them across the plain."

Even as Achilles spoke, the strength of mighty Ajax had come to an end, and with furious rush
did the Trojans board the ships. In their hands they bore blazing torches, and up to the sky
rushed the fiercely roaring flames.

Then cried Achilles, smiting his thighs:

"Haste thee, Patroclus! They burn the ships! Arm thyself speedily, and I will call my men!"

Corslet and shield and helmet did Patroclus swiftly don, and girded on the silver-studded sword
and took two strong lances in his hand.

In the chariot of Achilles he mounted, and Automedon, best and bravest of charioteers, took
the reins.

Swift as the wild west wind were Bayard and Piebald, the two horses of Achilles, and in the
side harness was Pedasus, a horse only less swift than they.

Gladly did the men of Achilles meet his call to arms, for fierce as wolves were they.

"Many times hast thou blamed me," cried Achilles, "because in my wrath I kept ye back from
battle. Here for ye now is a mighty fight, such as ye love."

To battle they went, and while Patroclus led them forth, Achilles in his tent offered up an
offering to Zeus.

Like wasps that pour forth from their nests by the wayside to sting the boys who have stoned
them, so now did the Greeks swarm from their ships.

Before the sword of Patroclus fell a mighty warrior, and when the men of Troy saw the shining
armor of Achilles in his own chariot their hearts sank within them.

Out of the ships were they driven, the fire was quenched, and back to the trench rolled the
tide of battle. In the trench writhed many a horse and many a man in dying agonies. But clear
across it leaped the horses of Achilles, and close to the walls of Troy did Patroclus drive
brave Hector before him.

His chariot then he turned, and headed off the fleeing Trojans, driving them down to the ships.
Before the furious rush of his swift steeds, other horses were borne off their feet, other
chariots cast in ruins on the ground, and men crushed to death under his wheels. Chief after
chief did Patroclus slay. A mighty destroyer was he that day.

One only of the chiefs of Troy kept his courage before the destroyer who wore the shining arms
of Achilles.

"Shame on ye!" cried Sarpedon to his men, "whither do ye flee? I myself will fight this man
who deals death and destruction to the Trojan host."

From their chariots leaped Sarpedon and Patroclus.

With the first cast of his spear Patroelus missed Sarpedon, but slew his charioteer. Then did
Sarpedon cast, and his spear whizzed past Patroclus, and smote the good horse Pedasus. With
a dreadful scream Pedasus fell, kicking and struggling, in the dust. This way and that did
the other two horses plunge and rear, until the yoke creaked and the reins became entangled.
But the charioteer leaped down, with his sword slashed clear the traces from Pedasus, and the
horses righted themselves.

Once again did Sarpedon cast his spear, and the point flew over the left shoulder of Patroclus.
But Patroclus missed not. Through the heart of Sarpedon sped the fiercely hurled spear, and
like a slim tree before the axe of the wood-cutter he fell, his dying hands clutching at the
bloody dust.

Furious was the combat then over the body of Sarpedon. One brave warrior after another did
Patroclus lay dead.

And more terrible still was the fight because in the ranks of the men of Troy there fought
now, in all-devouring wrath, the god Apollo.

Nine men, good warriors all, did Patroclus slay; then, waxing bolder, he tried to climb the
very walls of Troy.

Three times did Apollo thrust him back, and when, a fourth time, he attacked, the god cried
aloud to him in anger, warning him not to dare so much.

Against Patroclus did Hector then drive his war-horses, but Patroclus, leaping from his chariot,
hurled at Hector a jagged stone. In the eyes it smote the charioteer of Hector, and the slain
man dropped to the ground.

"How nimble a man is this!" jeered Patroclus. "How lightly he diveth! Were this the sea, how
good an oyster-seeker would this fellow be!"

Then from his chariot leaped Hector and met Patroclus, and the noise of the battle was as the
noise of a mighty gale in the forest when great trees fall crashing to the ground.

When the sun went down, victory was with the Greeks. Three mighty charges did Patroclus make,
and each time he slew nine men. But when, a fourth time, he charged, Apollo met him. In thick
mist he met him, and Patroclus knew not that he fought with a god. With a fierce down-stroke
from behind, Apollo smote his broad shoulders, and from off his head the helmet of Achilles
fell with a clang, rattling under the hoofs of the horses. Before the smiting of the god, Patroclus
stood stricken, stupid and amazed. Shattered in his hands was the spear of Achilles, and his
mighty shield clanged on the ground.

Ere he could know who was the smiter, a Trojan ally drove a spear between his shoulders, and
Patroclus, sore wounded, fell back.

Marking his dismay, Hector pressed forward, and clean through his body drove his bronze spear.
With a crash Patroclus fell.

"Thou that didst boast that thou wouldst sack my town, here shall vultures devour thee!" cried
Hector.

And in a faint voice Patroclus made answer:

"Not to thee do I owe my doom, great Hector. Twenty such as thou would I have fought and conquered,
but the gods have slain me. Yet verily I tell thee that thou thyself hast not long to live.
Even now doth Death stand beside thee!"

As he spoke, the shadow of Death fell upon Patroclus. No more in his ears roared the din of
battle; still and silent for ever he lay.

VI

THE ROUSING OF ACHILLES

Fierce had been the fight before Patroclus died. More fiercely yet it raged when he lay dead.

From his body did Hector take the arms of Achilles, and the dead Patroclus would the Trojans
fain have dragged to their city, there to bring shame to him and to all the Greek host.

But for him fought the Greeks, until the earth was wet with blood and the very skies echoed
the clang of battle.

To Achilles came Antilochos, a messenger fleet of foot.

"Fallen is Patroclus!" he cried, "and around his naked body do they fight, for his armor is
held by Hector."

Then did Achilles moan aloud. On the ground he lay, and in his hair he poured black ashes.
And the sound of his terrible lament was heard by his mother, Thetis, the goddess, as she sat
in her palace down under the depths of the green sea.

Up from under the waves swiftly came she to Achilles, and tenderly did she listen while he
poured forth to her the tale of the death of his dear comrade.

Then said Thetis:

"Not long, methinks, shall Hector glory in the armor that was thine, for Death presseth hard
upon him. Go not forth to battle, my son, until I return, bearing with me new and fair armor
for thee."

But when Thetis had departed, to Achilles in his sorrow came Iris, fair messenger of the gods.

"Unto windy Ilios will the Trojans drag the body of Patroclus unless thou comest now. Thou
needst not fight, Achilles, only show thyself to the men of Troy, for sore is the need of Patroclus
thy friend."

Then, all unarmed, did Achilles go forth, and stood beside the trench. With a mighty voice
he shouted, and at the sound of his voice terror fell upon the Trojans. Backward in flight
they went, and from among the dead did the Greeks draw the body of Patroclus, and hot were
the tears that Achilles shed for the friend whom he had sent forth to battle.

All that night, in the house of the Immortals, resounded the clang of hammer on anvil as Hephaistus,
the lame god, fashioned new arms for Achilles.

Bronze and silver and gold he threw in his fire, and golden handmaidens helped their master
to wield the great bellows, and to send on the crucibles blasts that made the ruddy flames dance.

No fairer shield was ever borne by man than that which Hephaistus made for Achilles. For him
also he wrought a corslet brighter than a flame of fire, and a helmet with a golden crest.

And in the morning light did Thetis dart down from snowy Olympus, bearing in her arms the splendid
gift of a god.

Glad was Achilles as he put on the armor, and terrible was his war-cry as he roused the Greek
warriors. No man, however sore his wounds, held back when the voice of Achilles called him
to the fight once again. Wounded was Agamemnon, overlord of the Greeks, but forth also came
he. And there, while the sun rose on many a warrior who would fight no more, did Achilles and
Agamemnon speak as friends once again, their long strife ended.

Hungry for war, with Achilles as their leader, did the Greeks then meet the Trojans on the
plain. And as a fierce fire rages through the forest, its flames driven by the wind, so did
Achilles in his wrath drive through the host of Troy.

Down to the Scamander he drove the fleeing Trojans, and the water reddened with blood, as he
smote and spared not.

Merciless was Achilles; pitilessly did he exult as one brave man after another was sent by
him to dye red the swift flood of the Scamander.

At length, at his lack of mercy, did even the river grow wrathful.

"Choked is my stream with dead men!" it cried, "and still thou slayest!"

But when Achilles heeded not, in fierce flood the river up-rose against him, sweeping the slain
before it, and in furious spate seeking to destroy Achilles. But as its waves smote against
his shield, Achilles grasped a tall elm, and uprooting it, cast it into the river to dam the
torrent. For the moment only was the angry river stayed. In fear did Achilles flee across the
plain, but with a mighty roar it pursued him, and caught him.

To the gods then cried Achilles, and to his aid came Athene, and close to the walls of Troy
again did Achilles chase the Trojan men.

From the city walls old Priam saw the dreadful things Achilles wrought.

And when, his armor blazing like the brightest stars of the sky, he drew near, and Hector would
have gone to meet him, in grief did Priam cry to his dearly loved son:

"Hector, beloved son, I pray thee go not alone to meet this man; mightier far than thou is he."

But all eager for the fight was Hector. Of all the men of Troy he alone still stood unafraid.
Then did the mother of Hector beseech him to hold back from what must surely mean death. Yet
Hector held not back, but on his shining shield leaned against a tower, awaiting the coming
of the great destroyer.

And at last they met, face to face, spear to spear. As a shooting-star in the darkness so flashed
the spear of Achilles as he hurled it home to pierce the neck of Hector. Gods and men had deserted
Hector, and alone before the walls of Troy he fell and died.

Thus ended the fight.

For twelve days did the Greek host rejoice, and all through the days Hector's body lay unburied.
For at the heels of swift horses had the Greeks dragged him to the ships, while from the battlements
his mother and his wife Andromache watched, wailing in agony, with hearts that broke.

Then at length went old Priam to the camp of the Greeks. And before Achilles he fell, beseeching
him to have mercy and to give him back the body of his son.

So was the heart of Achilles moved, and the body of Hector ransomed; and with wailing of women
did the people of Troy welcome home their hero.

Over him lamented his old mother, for of all her sons was he to her most dear, and over him
wept, with burning tears, his wife Andromache.

And to his bier came Helen, and with breaking heart did she sob forth her sorrow:

"Dearest of my brothers," she said, "from thee have I heard neither reproach nor evil word.
With kind words and gentle heart hast thou ever stood by me. Lost, lost is my one true friend.
No more in Troyland is any left to pity me."

On lofty funeral pyre then laid they the dead Hector, and when the flames had consumed his
body his comrades placed his white bones in a golden urn, and over it with great stones did
they raise a mighty mound that all might see where he rested.

Yet still was the warfare between Greeks and Trojans not ended.

To Achilles death came in a shaft from the bow of Paris. By a poisoned arrow driven at venture
and at dark midnight from the bow of an outcast leper was fair Paris slain. While winter snow
lay white on Ida, in Helen's arms did his life ebb away.

Then came there a day when the Greeks burned their camp and sailed homeward across the gray water.

Behind them they left a mighty horse of wood, and the men of Troy came and drew it into the
city as trophy and sign of victory over those who had made it. But inside the horse were hidden
many of the bravest warriors of Greece, and at night, when the Trojans feasted, the Greeks
came out of their hiding-place and threw open the gates.

And up from the sea came the Greek host, and in fire and in blood fell the city of Troy.

Yet did not Helen perish. Back to his own kingdom by the sea Menelaus took her, to reign, in
peace, a queen, she who had brought grief and death to so many, and to the city of Troy unutterable
woe. And when years passed and Odysseus did not return, the boy, Telemachus, grew to be a man.

Telemachus loved his beautiful mother, Penelope, but his heart always longed for the hero father
whom he could only dimly remember. As time went on, he longed more and more, for evil things
came to pass in the kingdom of Odysseus.

The chiefs and lords of Ithaca admired Penelope for her beauty. They also coveted her money
and her lands, and when Odysseus did not return, each one of these greedy and wicked men wished
to marry her and make his own all that had belonged to brave Odysseus.

"Odysseus is surely dead," they said, "and Telemachus is only a lad and cannot harm us."

So they came to the palace where Penelope and Telemachus lived, and there they stayed, year
in, year out, feasting and drinking and wasting the goods of Odysseus. Their roughness and
greed troubled Penelope, but still more did they each one daily torment her by rudely asking:
"Wilt thou marry me?"

At last she fell on a plan to stop them from talking to her of marriage.

In the palace hall she set up a great web, beautiful and fine of woof.

Then she said, "When I have finished weaving this robe I shall give you my answer."

Each day she worked at it, but each night, when the wooers slept, she undid all that she had
done during the day. So it seemed to the wooers as if the robe would never be finished.

Penelope's heart was heavy, and heavy, too, was the heart of Telemachus. For three weary years,
while Odysseus was imprisoned on the island of Calypso, the mother and son pined together.

One day Telemachus sat at the door of the palace sadly watching the wooers as they drank and
reveled. He was thinking of the brave father that he feared was dead, when there walked up
to the door of the courtyard a stranger dressed like a warrior from another land.

The stranger was the goddess Athene. At the same time that she gained leave from the gods to
set Odysseus free, they had agreed that she should go to Ithaca and help Telemachus. But she
came dressed as a warrior, and not as a beautiful, gray-eyed, golden-haired goddess with golden
sandals on her feet.

Telemachus rose up and shook her kindly by the hand, and led her into the hall. He took from
her the heavy bronze spear that she carried, and made her sit down on one of the finest of
the chairs, in a place where the noise of the rough wooers should not disturb her.

"Welcome, stranger," he said. "When thou hast had food, then shalt thou tell us in what way
we can help thee."

He then made servants bring a silver basin and golden ewer that she might wash her hands, and
he fetched her food and wine of the best.

Soon the wooers entered, and noisily ate they and drank, and roughly jested.

Telemachus watched them and listened with an angry heart. Then, in a low voice, he said to Athene:

"These men greedily eat and drink, and waste my father's goods. They think the bones of Odysseus
bleach out in the rain in a far land, or are tossed about by the sea. But did my father still
live, and were he to come home, the cowards would flee before him. Tell me, stranger, hast
thou come from a far-off country? Hast thou ever seen my father?"

Athene answered: "Odysseus still lives. He is a prisoner on a sea-girt island, but it will
not be long ere he escapes and comes home. Thou art like Odysseus, my son. Thou hast a head
like his, and the same beautiful eyes."

When Athene spoke to him so kindly and so hopefully, Telemachus told her all that was in his
heart. And when the wickedness and greed of the wooers was made known to her, Athene grew very
angry.

"Thou art in sore need of Odysseus," she said. "If Odysseus were to come to the door now with
lance in hand, soon would he scatter those shameless ones before him."

Then she told Telemachus what he must do.

"To-morrow," said she, "call thy lords to a council meeting, and tell the wooers to return
to their homes."

For himself, she told him to fit out a ship with twenty oars-men, that he might sail to a land
where he should get tidings of his father.

"Thou art tall and handsome, my friend," she said. "Be brave, that even in days to come men
may praise thy name."

"Thou speakest as a father to a son. I will never forget what thou hast said," said Telemachus.

He begged Athene to stay longer, and wished to give her a costly gift. But she would not stay,
nor accept any present. To Telemachus she had given a gift, though he did not know it. For
into his heart she had put strength and courage, so that when she flew away like a beautiful
bird across the sea she left behind her, not a frightened, unhappy boy, but a strong, brave man.

The wooers took no notice of the comings and goings of the strange warrior, so busy were they
with their noisy feast. As they feasted a minstrel played to them on his lyre, and sang a song
of the return of the warriors from Troyland when the fighting was over.

From her room above, Penelope heard the song, and came down. For a little, standing by the
door, she listened. Then she could bear it no longer, and, weeping, she said to the minstrel:

"Sing some other song, and do not sing a song of return from Troyland to me, whose husband
never returned."

Then Telemachus, in a new and manly way that made her wonder, spoke to his mother:

"Blame not the minstrel, dear mother," he said. "It is not his fault that he sings sad songs,
but the fault of the gods who allow sad things to be. Thou art not the only one who hast lost
a loved one in Troyland. Go back to thy room, and let me order what shall be, for I am now
the head of the house."

In the same fearless, manly way he spoke to the wooers:

"Ye may feast to-night," he said; "only let there be no brawling. To-morrow meet with me. For
once and for all it must be decided if ye are to go on wasting my goods, or if I am to be master
of my own house and king in mine own land."

The wooers bit their lips with rage, and some of them answered him rudely; but Telemachus paid
no heed, and when at last they returned to their houses, he went upstairs to his own room.
The old woman who had nursed him when he was a child carried torches before him to show him
the way. When he sat down on his bed and took off his doublet, she folded and smoothed it and
hung it up. Then she shut the door with its silver handle, and left Telemachus, wrapped in
a soft fleece of wool, thinking far into the night of all that Athene had said to him.

When day dawned he dressed and buckled on his sword, and told heralds to call the lords to
a council meeting. When all were assembled he went into the hall. In his hand he carried a
bronze spear, and two of his hounds followed him, and when he went up to his father's seat
and sat down there, the oldest men gave place to him. For Athene had shed on him such a wondrous
grace that he looked like a young god.

"Never since brave Odysseus sailed away to Troyland have we had a council meeting," said one
old lord. "I think the man who hath called this meeting is a true man--good luck go with him!
May the gods give him his heart's desire."

So good a beginning did this seem that Telemachus was glad, and, burning to say all that had
been in his heart for so long, he rose to his feet and spoke.

Of the loss of his father he spoke sadly, and then, with burning words, of the cowardly wooers,
of their feastings and revelings and wasting of his goods, and of their insolence to Penelope
and himself.

When he had thus spoken in rage and grief, he burst into tears.

For a little there was silence, then one of the wooers said angrily:

"Penelope is to blame, and no other. For three years she has deceived us. 'I will give you
my answer when I have finished weaving this robe,' she said, and so we waited and waited. But
now that three years have gone and a fourth has begun, it is told us by one of her maids that
each night she has undone all she has woven during the day. She can deceive us no longer. She
must now finish the robe, and tell us whom she will marry. For we will not leave this place
until she has chosen a husband."

Then, once again, with pleading words, Telemachus tried to move the hearts of the wooers.

"If ye will not go," at last he said, "I will ask the gods to reward you for your wickedness."

As he spoke, two eagles flew, fleet as the wind, from the mountain crest. Side by side they
flew until they were above the place of the council meeting. Then they wheeled about, darted
with fury at each other, and tore with their savage talons at each other's heads and necks.
Flapping their great wings, they then went swiftly away and were lost in the far distance.

Said a wise old man: "It is an omen. Odysseus will return, and woe will come upon the wooers.
Let us make an end of these evil doings and keep harm away from us."

"Go home, old man," angrily mocked the wooers. "Prophesy to thine own children. Odysseus is
dead. Would that thou hadst died with him. Then thou couldst not have babbled nonsense, and
tried to hound on Telemachus in the hope that he may give thee a gift."

To Telemachus they said again:

"We will go on wasting thy goods until Penelope weds one of us."

Only one other beside the old man was brave enough to speak for Telemachus. Fearlessly and
nobly did his friend Mentor blame the wooers for their shamelessness. But they jeered at him,
and laughed aloud when Telemachus told them he was going to take a ship and go to look for
his father.

"He will never come back," said one, "and even were Odysseus himself to return, we should slay
him when he came."

Then the council meeting broke up, and the wooers went again to revel in the palace of Odysseus.

Down to the seashore went Telemachus and knelt where the gray water broke in little white wavelets
on the sand.

"Hear me," he cried, "thou who didst speak with me yesterday. I know now that thou art a god.
Tell me, I pray thee? how shall I find a ship to sail across the misty sea and find my father?
For there is none to help me."

Swiftly, in answer to his cry, came Athene.

"Be brave. Be thy father's son," she said. "Go back to thy house and get ready corn and wine
for the voyage. I will choose the best of all the ships in Ithaca for thee, and have her launched,
and manned by a crew, all of them willing men."

Then Telemachus returned to the palace. In the courtyard the wooers were slaying goats and
singeing swine and making ready a great feast.

"Here comes Telemachus, who is planning to destroy us," they mocked. "Telemachus, who speaks
so proudly--- angry Telemachus."

Said one youth:

"Who knows but what if he goes on a voyage he will be like Odysseus, and never return. Then
will we have all his riches to divide among ourselves, and his house will belong to the man
who weds Penelope."

Telemachus shook off the jeering crowd, and went down to the vaulted chamber where his father's
treasures were kept. Gold and bronze lay there in piles, and there were great boxes of splendid
clothes, and casks of wine. The heavy folding doors of the treasure chamber were shut day and
night, and the old nurse was the keeper of the treasures.

Telemachus bade her get ready corn and wine for the voyage.

"When my mother has gone to rest I will take them away," he said, "for this night I go to seek
my father across the sea."

At this the old nurse began to cry.

"Do not go, dear child," she wailed. "Thou art our only one, and we love thee so well. Odysseus
is dead, and what canst thou do, sailing far away across the deep sea? As soon as thou art
gone, those wicked men will begin to plot evil against thee. Do not go. Do not go. There is
no need for thee to risk thy life on the sea and go wandering far from home."

"Take heart, nurse," said Telemachus. "The goddess Athene has told me to go, so all will be
well. But promise me not to tell my dear mother that I am gone until she misses me. For I do
not wish to mar her fair face with tears."

The nurse promised, and began to make ready all that Telemachus wished.

Meantime Athene, in the likeness of Telemachus, found a swift-sailing ship, and men to sail
it. When darkness fell, she sent sleep on the wooers and led Telemachus down to the shore where
his men sat by their oars.

To the palace, where every one slept and all was still and quiet, Telemachus brought his men.
None but the old nurse knew he was going away, but they found the food and wine that she had
got ready and carried it down to the ship. Then Athene went on board, and Telemachus sat beside
her. A fresh west wind filled the sails and went singing over the waves. The dark water surged
up at the bow as the ship cut through it. And all night long and till the dawn, the ship sailed
happily on her way.

At sunrise they came to land, and Athene and Telemachus went on shore. The rulers of the country
welcomed them and treated them well, but could tell nothing of Odysseus after the siege of
Troy was over. Athene gave Telemachus into their care, then, turning herself into a sea-eagle,
she flew swiftly away, leaving them amazed because they knew she must be one of the gods.

While Telemachus sought for news of his father in this kingdom, and the kingdoms near it, the
wooers began to miss him at their feasts. They fancied he was away hunting, until, one day,
as they played games in front of the palace, the man whose ship Athene had borrowed came to them.

"When will Telemachus return with my ship?" he asked.

"I need it that I may cross over to where I keep my horses. I wish to catch one and break him in."

When the wooers heard from him that Telemachus had sailed away with twenty brave youths, in
the swiftest ship in Ithaca, they were filled with rage.

At once they got a ship and sailed to where they might meet Telemachus in a strait between
Ithaca and another rocky island.

"We will slay him there," said they. "We will give him a woful end to his voyage in search
of his father."

When Penelope heard this, and knew that her son was perhaps sailing to his doom, her heart
well-nigh broke. She wept bitterly, and reproached her maidens with not having told her that
Telemachus had gone.

"Slay me if thou wilt," said the old nurse, "but I alone knew it. Telemachus made me promise
not to tell thee, that thy fair face might not be marred by weeping. Do not fear, the goddess
Athene will take care of him."

Thus she comforted her mistress, and although she lay long awake that night, Penelope fell
asleep at last. In her dreams Athene came to her and told her that Telemachus would come safely
home, and so Penelope's sad heart was cheered.

While she slept the wooers sailed away in a swift, black ship, with spears in their hands and
murder in their hearts. On a little rocky isle they landed until the ship of Telemachus should
pass, and there they waited, that they might slay him when he came.

II

HOW ODYSSEUS CAME HOME

While yet Telemachus sought news of his father, Odysseus was well-nigh home. On that misty
morning when he found himself in Ithaca, and did not know it, because the gray fog made everything
seem strange and unfriendly, Odysseus was very sad as he sat beside the moaning sea.

Then came Athene, and drove the mist before her, and Odysseus saw again the land that he loved,
and knew that his wanderings were past. She told him the tale of the wooers, and of the unhappiness
of Penelope and Telemachus, and the heart of Odysseus grew hot within him.

"Stand by me!" he said to the goddess. "If thou of thy grace wilt help me, I myself will fight
three hundred men."

"Truly I will stand by thee," said Athene, "and many of the greedy wooers shall stain the earth
with their blood."

She then told Odysseus how the wooers were to be destroyed, and Odysseus gladly agreed to her
plans. First she made him hide far in the darkness of the cave, under the olive-tree, all the
gold and bronze ornaments and beautiful clothes that had been given to him in the land of Nausicaa.

Then she touched him with her golden wand. In a moment his yellow hair fell off his head; his
bright eyes were dim; his skin was withered and wrinkled, and he had a stooping back and tottering
legs like a feeble old man. His clothes of purple and silver she changed into torn and filthy
old rags, and over his shoulders she threw the old skin of a stag with the hair worn off.

"Go now," said Athene, "to where thy faithful swineherd sits on the hill, watching his swine
as they grub among the acorns and drink of the clear spring. He has always been true to thee
and to thy wife and son. Stay with him and hear all that he has to tell, and I will go and
fetch home Telemachus."

"When thou didst know all, why didst thou not tell Telemachus?" asked Odysseus. "Is he, too,
to go wandering over stormy seas, far from his own land?"

"Telemachus will be a braver man for what he has gone through," said Athene. "No harm shall
come to him, although the wooers in their black ship wait to slay him."

Then Athene flew across the sea, and Odysseus climbed up a rough track through the woods to
where the swineherd had built himself a hut. The hut was made of stones and thorn-branches,
and beside it were sties for the swine made in the same way. The wooers had eaten many swine
at their daily feasts, but thousands remained. These the swineherd tended, with three men and
four fierce dogs to help him.

At an open space on the hill, from whence he could look down at the woods and the sea, Odysseus
found the swineherd sitting at the door of his hut making himself a pair of sandals out of
brown ox-hide.

When the swineherd's dogs saw a dirty, bent old man toiling up the hill, they rushed at him,
barking furiously. Up they leapt on him and would have torn him to pieces if their master had
not cast away his ox-hide, dashed after them, scolded them and beaten them, and then driven
them off with showers of stones.

"If my dogs had killed thee I should have been for ever ashamed," he said to Odysseus, "and
without that I have enough sorrow. For while my noble master may be wandering in a strange
land and lacking food, I have to feed his fat swine for others to eat."

So speaking, he led Odysseus to his hut. He laid some brushwood on the floor, spread over it
the soft, shaggy skin of a wild goat, and bade Odysseus be seated. Then he went out to the
sties, killed two sucking pigs, and roasted them daintily. When they were ready he cut off
the choicest bits and gave them to Odysseus, with a bowl of honey-sweet wine.

While Odysseus ate and drank, the swineherd talked to him of the greed and wastefulness of
the wooers, and in silence Odysseus listened, planning in his heart how he might punish them.

"Tell me thy master's name," he said at length. "I have traveled in many lands. Perchance I
may have seen him, and may give thee news of him."

But the swineherd answered:

"Each vagrant who comes straying to the land of Ithaca goes to my mistress with lying tales
of how he has seen or heard of my master. She receives them all kindly, and asks many questions,
while tears run down her cheeks. You, too, old man, would quickly make up a story if any one
would give thee some new clothes. My master is surely dead, and wherever I may go I shall never
again find a lord so gentle."

Then said Odysseus:

"My friend, I swear to thee that Odysseus shall return. In this year, as the old moon wanes
and the new is born, he shall return to his home."

When the other herds returned that evening they found Odysseus and their master still deep
in talk. At night the swineherd made a feast of the best that he had, and still they talked,
almost until dawn. The night was black and stormy, and a drenching rain blotted out the moon,
but the swineherd, leaving Odysseus lying in the bed he had made for him, with his own thick
mantle spread over him, went outside and lay under a rock that sheltered him from the storm,
keeping guard on the white-tusked boars that slept around him. And Odysseus knew that he had
still at least one servant who was faithful and true.

While Odysseus dwelt with the swineherd, Athene sought Telemachus and bade him hasten home.
Speedily Telemachus went back to his ship and his men. The hawsers were loosed, the white sail
hauled up, and Athene sent a fresh breeze that made the ship cut through the water like a white-winged
bird. It was night when they passed the island where the wooers awaited their coming, and in
the darkness none saw them go by.

By daybreak they reached Ithaca, and Telemachus, as Athene had bidden him, sent on the men
to the harbor with the ship, but made them put him ashore on the woody coast near the swineherd's
dwelling.

With his bronze-shod spear in his hand, Telemachus strode up the rocky path. Odysseus and the
swineherd had kindled a fire, and were preparing the morning meal, when Odysseus heard the
noise of footsteps. He looked out and saw a tall lad with yellow hair and bright eyes, and
a fearless, noble face. "Surely here is a friend," he said to the swineherd. "Thy dogs are
not barking, but jump up and fawn on him."

The swineherd looked, and when he saw his young master he wept for joy.

"I thought I should never see thee more, sweet light of my eyes," he said. "Come into my hut,
that I may gladden my heart with the sight of thee."

He then spread before him the best he had, and the three men ate together. Although Odysseus
seemed only a poor, ragged, old beggar, Telemachus treated him with such gentleness and such
courtesy that Odysseus was proud and glad of his noble son. Soon Telemachus sent the swineherd
to tell Penelope of his safe return, and while he was gone Athene entered the hut. She made
herself invisible to Telemachus, but beckoned to Odysseus to go outside.

"The time is come for thee to tell thy son who thou art," she said, and touched him with her
golden wand.

At once Odysseus was again a strong man, dressed in fine robes, and radiant and beautiful as
the sun.

When he went back into the hut Telemachus thought he was a god.

"No god am I," said Odysseus; "I am thy father, Telemachus."

And Odysseus took his son in his arms and kissed him, and the tears that he had kept back until
now ran down his cheeks. Telemachus flung his arms round his father's neck, and he, too, wept
like a little child, so glad was he that Odysseus had come home.

All day they spoke of the wooers and plotted how to slay them.

When the swineherd returned, and Athene had once more changed Odysseus into an old beggar-man,
he told Telemachus that the wooers had returned, and were so furious with Telemachus for escaping
from them, that they were going to kill him next day.

At this Telemachus smiled to his father, but neither said a word.

Next morning Telemachus took his spear and said to the swineherd:

"I go to the palace to see my mother. As for this old beggar-man, lead him to the city, that
he may beg there."

And Odysseus, still pretending to be a beggar, said:

"It is better to beg in the town than in the fields. My garments are very poor and thin, and
this frosty air chills me; but as soon as I am warmed at the fire and the sun grows hot, I
will gladly set out."

Down the hill to the city strode Telemachus. When he came to the palace, his old nurse, whom
he found busy in the hall, wept for joy. And when Penelope heard his voice, she came from her
room and cast her arms round him and kissed his face and his eyes, and said, while tears ran
down her cheeks:

"Thou art come, sweet light of my eyes. I thought I should never see thee more."

Then Telemachus, looking like a young god, with his spear in his hand and his two hounds following
at his heels, went to the hall where the wooers sat. To his friend Mentor he told his adventures,
but he looked on the wooers with silence and scorn.

Soon Odysseus and the swineherd followed him to the city. A beggar's bag, all tattered, was
slung round the shoulders of Odysseus. In his hand he carried a staff. Men who saw him, tattered
and feeble, mocked at him and his guide. But Odysseus kept down the anger in his heart, and
they went on to the palace. Near the doorway, lying in the dirt, thin and old and rough of
coat, lay Argos, the dog that long ago had been the best and fleetest that had hunted the hares
and deer with Odysseus.

When he heard his master's voice he wagged his tail and tried to crawl near him. But he was
too feeble to move. He could only look up with loving, wistful eyes that were almost blind,
and thump his tail gladly. So glad was he that his faithful heart broke for joy, and before
Odysseus could pat his head or speak a kind word to him, old Argos rolled over dead.

There were tears in the eyes of Odysseus as he walked past the body of his friend. He sat down
on the threshold leaning on his staff, and when Telemachus sent him bread and meat from his
table he ate hungrily. When the meal was over he went round the hall begging from the wooers.
Some gave him scraps of broken meats, others called him hard names and bade him begone, and
one of them seized a footstool and struck him with it.

But Odysseus still kept down the anger in his heart, and went back to his seat on the threshold
with his beggar's bag full of the scraps that had been given to him.

As he sat there, a common beggar, well known for his greed and impudence, came to the palace.

"Get thee hence, old man," said he to Odysseus, "else I shall knock all thy teeth from thy head."

More, too, he said, rudely and roughly, and at last he struck Odysseus.

Then Odysseus could bear no more, and smote him such a blow on his neck that the bones were
broken, and he fell on the ground with blood gushing from his mouth. Odysseus dragged him outside
by the heels, and propped him, with his staff in his hands, against the courtyard wall.

"Sit there," he said, "and scare off dogs and swine."

The wooers laughed and enjoyed the sport, and gave gifts of food to the sturdy old beggar,
as they took Odysseus to be. All evening they feasted and drank, but when night fell they went
to their own homes.

When they were gone Odysseus and Telemachus carried all the helmets and swords and sharp-pointed
spears that stood in the hall, away to the armory and hid them there.

Then Telemachus went to his room to rest, but Odysseus sat in the hall where the servants were
clearing away the remains of the feast. While he sat there, Penelope came with her maids and
rested on a chair In front of the glowing wood fire on which the servants had piled fresh logs.

She talked kindly and gently to the old beggar-man, and bade the old nurse bring water to wash
his weary feet.

Now, once long ago, a wild boar that he hunted had torn the leg of Odysseus with his tusk,
and as the old nurse washed his feet she saw the scar. In a moment she knew her master, and
cried out. The brazen bath fell with a clang on the floor, and the water was spilt.

"Thou art Odysseus," she said; "I did not know thee, my dear child, until I found the scar."

Penelope must have heard her glad cry, had not Athene at that moment made her deep in thoughts
of other things. Quickly Odysseus bade the old nurse be silent, and the old woman obeyed him.

Before Penelope went to rest she said sadly to Odysseus: "I feel that the end is drawing near.
Soon I shall be parted from the house of Odysseus. My husband, who was always the best and
bravest, used to set up the twelve axes ye see standing here, and between each axe he shot
an arrow. I have told the wooers that I shall marry whichever one of them can do the like.
Then I shall leave this house, which must be for ever most dear to me."

Then answered the old beggar-man: "Odysseus will be here when they shoot. It will be Odysseus
who shoots between the axes."

Penelope, longing for his words to be true, went up to her room and lay crying on her bed until
her pillows were wet. Then Athene sent sleep upon her eyelids and made her forget all her sorrows.

Odysseus, too, would have tossed all night wide awake, with a heart full of anger and revenge,
had not Athene gently laid her hands on his eyes and made him fall asleep.

Next day the wooers came to the palace, and with rough jest and rude word they greeted Odysseus.

"Who harms this man must fight with me," said Telemachus, and at that the wooers shouted with
laughter.

But a stranger who sat among them cried out in a voice of fear:

"I see your hands and knees shrouded in blackness! I see your cheeks wet with tears! The walls
and the pillars drip blood; the porch is full of shadows, and pale ghosts are hastening out
of the gray mist that fills the palace."

At this the wooers laughed the more, for they thought the man was mad. But, as in a dream,
he had seen truly what was to come to pass.

Weeping, Penelope then brought forth from the armory the great bow with which Odysseus had
shot in years that were past. Her heart was full of love for Odysseus, and she could not bear
to wed another.

Telemachus then threw aside his red cloak and ranged out the bronze axes.

One by one the wooers tried to move the great bow and make it drive a swift arrow before it.
One by one they failed.

And when it seemed as if no man there was strong enough to move it, Odysseus took it in his
hands, and between each axe he shot an arrow. When the last arrow was shot he tore off his
rags, and in a voice that rang through the palace he cried to Telemachus: "Now is it time to
prepare supper for the wooers! Now, at last, is this terrible trial ended. I go to shoot at
another mark!"

With that he shot an arrow at the wooer who had ever been the most insolent and the most cruel.
It smote him in the throat, his blood dripped red on the ground, and he fell dead.

The others gave a great cry of rage, but Odysseus looked at them with burning eyes, and with
a voice that made them tremble he cried:

"Ye dogs! ye said I should never return, and, like the traitors ye are, ye have wasted my goods
and insulted my queen. But now death has come for you, and none shall escape."

In vain did the cowards, their faces pale with fear, beg for mercy. Mercy there was none that
day. It was useless for those who drew their swords and rushed on Odysseus to try to slay him,
for ere their swords could touch him, his bow had driven sharp arrows into their hearts.

One of the servants of the palace treacherously climbed into the armory and brought spears
and shields and helmets for the wooers. But even that did not daunt Odysseus and his son. Telemachus,
with his spear, slew man after man. When his arrows were done Odysseus also snatched a spear,
and they fought side by side. Beside them fought the swineherd and one other man, and they
all fought the more fearlessly because, all the time, Athene put fresh courage in their hearts.

There were four men to very many others when that fight began. When it was ended the floor
ran with blood, and Odysseus, like a lion at bay, stood with the dead bodies of the wooers
piled in heaps around him and his face and hands stained with blood.

When all lay dead, the old nurse gave a great cry of joy.

"Rejoice in thy heart, old nurse," said Odysseus. "It is an unholy thing to rejoice openly
over slain men."

The nurse hastened to Penelope's room.

"Penelope, dear child!" she cried, "Odysseus is come home, and all the wooers lie dead."

At first Penelope would not believe her. Too good did it seem to be true. Even when she came
down and saw Odysseus leaning against a tall pillar in the light of the fire, she would not
believe what her own eyes saw.

"Surely, mother, thy heart is as hard as stone," said Telemachus. "Dost thou not know my father?"

But Penelope saw only a ragged beggar-man, soiled with the blood of the men he had slain, old
and ugly and poor.

Then Athene shed her grace upon Odysseus, and once more he was tall and strong and gallant
to look upon, with golden hair curling like hyacinth flowers around his head. And Penelope
ran to him and threw out her arms, and they held each other close and wept together like those
who have suffered shipwreck, and have been tossed for long by angry seas, and yet have won
safely home at last.

And when the sun went down that night on the little rocky island of Ithaca in the far seas,
the heart of Odysseus was glad, for he knew that his wanderings were ended. Though he never
even saw the sea till he was quite a big boy, he had always wanted to be a sailor, and to go
away in a ship to visit strange, foreign, far-off lands; and he thought that if he could only
do that, he would be quite happy.

But his father wanted him to be a lawyer, and he often talked to Robinson, and told him of
the terrible things that might happen to him if he went away, and how people who stopped at
home were always the happiest. He told him, too, how Robinson's brother had gone away, and
had been killed in the wars.

So Robinson promised at last that he would give up wanting to be a sailor. But in a few days
the longing came back as bad as ever, and he asked his mother to try to coax his father to
let him go just one voyage. But his mother was very angry, and his father said, "If he goes
abroad he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born. I can give no consent to it."

Robinson stopped at home for another year, till he was nineteen years old, all the time thinking
and thinking of the sea. But one day when he had gone on a visit to Hull, a big town by the
sea, to say good-by to one of his friends who was going to London, he could not resist the
chance. Without even sending a message to his father and mother, he went on board his friend's
ship, and sailed away.

But as soon as the wind began to blow and the waves to rise, poor Robinson was very frightened
and seasick, and he said to himself that if ever he got on shore he would go straight home
and never again leave it.

He was very solemn till the wind stopped blowing. His friend and the sailors laughed at him,
and called him a fool, and he very soon forgot, when the weather was fine and the sun shining,
all he had thought about going back to his father and mother.

But in a few days, when the ship had sailed as far as Yarmouth Roads on her way to London,
they had to anchor, and wait for a fair wind. In those days there were no steamers, and vessels
had only their sails to help them along; so if it was calm, or the wind blew the wrong way,
they had just to wait where they were till a fair wind blew.

While they lay at Yarmouth the weather became very bad, and there was a great storm. The sea
was so heavy and Robinson's ship was in such danger, that at last they had to cut away the
masts in order to ease her and to stop her from rolling so terribly. The Captain fired guns
to show that his ship wanted help. So a boat from another ship was lowered, and came with much
difficulty and took off Robinson and all the crew, just before their vessel sank; and they
got ashore at last, very wet and miserable, having lost all their clothes except what they had on.

But Robinson had some money in his pocket, and he went on to London by land, thinking that
if he returned home now, people would laugh at him.

In London he made friends with a ship's captain, who had not long before come home from a voyage
to the Guinea Coast, as that part of Africa was then called; and the Captain was so pleased
with the money he had made there, that he easily persuaded Robinson to go with him on his next
voyage.

So Robinson took with him toys, and beads, and other things, to sell to the natives in Africa,
and he got there, in exchange for these things, so much gold-dust that he thought he was soon
going in that way to make his fortune.

And therefore he went on a second voyage.

But this time he was not so lucky, for before they reached the African coast, one morning,
very early, they sighted another ship, which they were sure was a pirate. So fast did this
other vessel sail, that before night she had come up to Robinson's ship, which did not carry
nearly so many men nor so many guns as the pirate, and which therefore did not want to fight;
and the pirates soon took prisoner Robinson and all the crew of his ship who were not killed,
and made slaves of them.

The pirate captain took Robinson as his own slave, and made him dig in his garden and work
in his house. Sometimes, too, he made him look after his ship when she was in port, but he
never took him away on a voyage.

For two years Robinson lived like this, very unhappy, and always thinking how he might escape.

At last, when the Captain happened one time to be at home longer than usual, he began to go
out fishing in a boat two or three times a week, taking Robinson, who was a very good fisher,
and a black boy named Xury, with him.

One day he gave Robinson orders to put food and water, and some guns, and powder and shot,
on a big boat that the pirates had taken out of an English ship, and to be ready to go with
him and some of his friends on a fishing trip.

But at the last moment the Captain's friends could not come, and so Robinson was told to go
out in the boat with one of the Captain's servants who was not a slave, and with Xury, to catch
fish for supper.

Then Robinson thought that his chance to escape had come.

He spoke to the servant, who was not very clever, and persuaded him to put more food and water
on the boat, for, said Robinson, "we must not take what was meant for our master." And then
he got the servant to bring some more powder and shot, because, Robinson said, they might as
well kill some birds to eat.

When they had gone out about a mile, they hauled down the sail and began to fish. But Robinson
pretended that he could not catch anything there, and he said that they ought to go further
out. When they had gone so far that nobody on shore could see what they were doing, Robinson
again pretended to fish. But this time he watched his chance, and when the servant was not
looking, came behind him and threw him overboard, knowing that the man could swim so well that
he could easily reach the land.

Then Robinson sailed away with Xury down the coast to the south. He did not know to what country
he was steering, but cared only to get away from the pirates, and to be free once more.

Long days and nights they sailed, sometimes running in close to the land, but they were afraid
to go ashore very often, because of the wild beasts and the natives. Many times they saw great
lions come roaring down on to the beach, and once Robinson shot one that he saw lying asleep,
and took its skin to make a bed for himself on the boat.

At last, after some weeks, when they had got south as far as the great cape that is called
Cape Verde, they saw a Portuguese vessel, which took them on board. It was not easy for Robinson
to tell who he was, because he could not talk Portuguese, but everybody was very kind to him,
and they bought his boat and his guns and everything that he had. They even bought poor Xury,
who, of course, was a black slave, and could be sold just like a horse or a dog.

So, when they got to Brazil, where the vessel was bound, Robinson had enough money to buy a
plantation; and he grew sugar and tobacco there for four years, and was very happy and contented
for a time, and made money.

But he could never be contented for very long. So when some of his neighbors asked him if he
would go in a ship to the Guinea Coast to get slaves for them, he went, only making a bargain
that he was to be paid for his trouble, and to get some of the slaves to work on his plantation
when he came back.

Twelve days after the ship sailed, a terrible storm blew, and they were driven far from where
they wanted to go. Great, angry, foaming seas broke over the deck, sweeping everything off
that could be moved, and a man and a boy were carried overboard and drowned. No one on the
ship expected to be saved.

This storm was followed by another, even worse. The wind howled and roared through the rigging,
and the weather was thick with rain and flying spray.

Then early one morning land was dimly seen through the driving rain, but almost at once the
vessel struck on a sand-bank. In an instant the sails were blown to bits, and flapped with
such uproar that no one could hear the Captain's orders. Waves poured over the decks, and the
vessel bumped on the sand so terribly that the masts broke off near the deck, and fell over
the side into the sea.

With great difficulty the only boat left on the ship was put in the water, and everybody got
into her. They rowed for the shore, hoping to get perhaps into some bay, or to the mouth of
a river, where the sea would be quiet.

But before they could reach the land, a huge gray wave, big like the side of a house, came
foaming and thundering up behind them, and before any one could even cry out, it upset the
boat, and they were all left struggling in the water.

Robinson was a very good swimmer, but no man could swim in such a sea, and it was only good
fortune that brought him at last safely to land. Big wave after big wave washed him further
and further up the beach, rolling him over and over, once leaving him helpless, and more than
half drowned, beside a rock.

But before the next wave could come up, perhaps to drag him back with it into the sea, he was
able to jump up and run for his life.

And so he got safely out of the reach of the water, and lay down upon the grass. But of all
on board the ship, Robinson was the only one who was not drowned.

II

ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING HIMSELF A HOME

When he had rested a little, Robinson got up and began to walk about very sadly, for darkness
was coming on; he was wet, and cold, and hungry, and he did not know where to sleep, because
he was afraid of wild beasts coming out of the woods and killing him during the night.

But he found that he still had his knife in his pocket, so he cut a big stick to protect himself
with. Then he climbed into a tree which had very thick leaves, and there he fixed himself among
the branches as well as he could, and fell sound asleep.

In the morning when he awoke, the storm was past, and the sea quieter. To his surprise, he
saw that the ship had been carried in the night, by the great seas, much nearer to the shore
than she had been when the boat left her, and was now lying not far from the rock where Robinson
had first been washed up.

By midday the sea was quite calm, and the tide had gone so far out that he could walk very
near to the ship. So he took off his clothes and swam the rest of the way to her. But it was
not easy to get on board, because the ship was resting on the sand, and lay so high out of
the water that Robinson could not reach anything by which he could pull himself up.

At last, after swimming twice round the vessel, he saw a rope hanging over, near the bow, and
by its help he climbed on board.

Everything in the stern of the ship was dry, and in pretty good order, and the water had not
hurt the provisions much. So he took some biscuits, and ate them as he looked about, and drank
some rum, and then he felt better, and stronger, and more fit to begin work.

First of all, he took a few large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two, that were on the
deck. These he pushed overboard, tying each with a rope to keep it from drifting away. Then
he went over the side of the ship, and tied all the spars together so as to make a raft, and
on top he put pieces of plank across. But it was long before he could make the raft fit to
carry the things he wanted to take on shore.

At last, after much hard work, he got on to it three of the seamen's chests, which he had broken
open, and emptied, and he filled these with bread, and rice, and cheese, and whatever he could
find to eat, and with all sorts of things that he thought he might need. He found, too, the
carpenter's tool-chest, and put it on the raft; and nothing on the whole ship was of more use
to him than that.

Then he set about looking for clothes, for while he had been on the ship, the tide had risen
and had washed away his coat and waistcoat and shirt, which he had left lying on the sand.

Guns and pistols also, and powder and shot, he took, and two rusty old cutlasses.

Now the trouble was to reach land, for the raft had no mast nor sail nor rudder, and was too
heavy and clumsy to be pulled by Robinson with the broken oars that he had found. But the tide
was rising, and slowly she drifted nearer and nearer, and at last was carried up the mouth
of a little river which Robinson had not seen when he was on shore.

There was a strong tide running up, which once carried the raft against a point of land, where
she stuck for a time, and very nearly upset all the things into deep water. But as the tide
rose higher, Robinson was able to push her into a little bay where the water was shallow and
the ground beneath flat, and when the tide went out there she was left high and dry, and he
got everything safely ashore.

The next thing that Robinson did was to climb a hill, that he might see what sort of country
he was in, and find out if there were any other people in it. But when he got to the top, he
saw to his sorrow that he was on an island, with no other land in sight except some rocks,
and two smaller islands far over the sea. There were no signs of any people, and he saw nothing
living except great numbers of birds, one of which he shot. But it was not fit to eat, being
some kind of hawk.

After this, with the chests and boards that he had brought on shore, he made a kind of hut
to sleep in that night, and he lay there on the sand very comfortably.

Day by day now for some time Robinson swam out to the ship, and made fresh rafts, loading them
with many stores, powder and shot, and lead for bullets, seven muskets, a great barrel of bread,
three casks of rum, a quantity of flour, some grain, a box of sugar, sails and ropes and twine,
bags of nails, and many hatchets. With one of the sails he made himself a good tent, in which
he put everything that could be spoiled by rain or sun. Around it he piled all the casks and
other heavy things, so that no wild beast could very easily get at him.

In about a fortnight the weather changed; it blew very hard one night, and in the morning the
ship had broken up, and was no more to be seen. But that did not so much matter, for Robinson
had got out of her nearly everything that he could use.

Now Robinson thought it time to find some better place for his tent. The land where it then
stood was low and near the sea, and the only water he could get to drink tasted rather salt.
Looking about, he found a little plain, about a hundred yards across, on the side of a hill,
and at the end of the plain was a great rock partly hollowed out, but not so as quite to make
a cave. Here he pitched his tent, close to the hollow place in the rock. Round in front of
the tent he drove two rows of strong stakes, about eighteen inches apart, sharpened at top;
and he made this fence so strong that when it was finished he was sure that nothing could get
at him, for he left no door, but climbed in and out by a ladder, which he always hauled up
after him.

Before closing up the end, Robinson hauled inside this fence all his stores, his food and his
guns, his powder and shot, and he rigged inside a double tent, so better to keep off the hot
sun and the rain.

Then he began to dig into the rock, which was not very hard, and soon behind his tent he had
a cave in which he thought it wise to stow his gunpowder, about one hundred and forty pounds
in all, packed in small parcels; for, he thought, if a big thunderstorm were to come, a flash
of lightning might explode it all, and blow him to bits, if he kept the whole of it in his tent.

Robinson was now very comfortable, and as he had saved from the wreck two cats and a dog, he
did not feel quite so lonely. He had got, also, ink and pens and paper, so that he could keep
a diary; and he set up a large wooden cross, on which he cut with his knife the date of his
landing on the island--September 30, 1659; and every day he cut a notch on the post, with a
longer one each Sunday, so that he might always know how the months and years passed.

As for food, he found that there were many goats on the island, and numbers of pigeons, and
he had no difficulty in shooting as many as he needed.

But now he saw that his tent and cave were too small for all the things he had stowed in them,
so he began to make the cave bigger, bringing out all the rock and soil that he cut down, and
making with it a kind of terrace round the inside of his stockade. And as he was sure that
there were no wild beasts on the island to harm him, he went on tunneling to the right hand
till he broke through the rock outside his fence.

Then he began to hang things up against the side of the cave, and he even made shelves, and
a door for the outside entrance. This was a very difficult job, and took him a long time; for,
to make a board, he was forced to cut down a whole tree, and chop away with his axe till one
side was flat, and then cut at the other side till the board was thin enough, when he smoothed
it with his adze. But in this way, out of each tree he would only get one plank. He made for
himself also a table and a chair, and finally got his castle, as he called it, in very good order.

With all his care, however, there was one thing that he forgot, and that was, when he had made
the cave so much bigger, to prop it, so as to keep the roof from falling in. And so one day
he got a terrible fright, and was nearly killed, by a huge bit of the soft rock which fell
and buried many of his things. It took weeks of hard work afterwards to clear away the fallen
rubbish, and to cut beams strong enough to prop the roof.

Every day, all this time, he used to climb up the hill and look around over the lonely waters,
hoping, always hoping, that some morning he might see the sails of a ship that would take him
home. But none ever came, and sometimes the tears ran down his cheeks because of the sorrow
he felt at being so utterly alone. At times even, he thought in his misery that if he only
had any kind of a boat, it would be better to sail away, and chance reaching other land, rather
than to stop where he was. By and by, however, he grew less unhappy, for he had plenty of work
to do.

III

THE EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE; AND HOW ROBINSON BUILT A BOAT

Now about this time, when Robinson had been some months on the island, heavy and constant rain
began to fall, and sometimes weeks would pass without a single dry day. He found that instead
of there being spring, summer, autumn, and winter, as in England, the seasons in his island
were divided into the wet and the dry. There was no cold weather, no winter. It chanced that
just before this first rain began, Robinson had emptied out some refuse from bags which had
once held rice, and other grain, and he had forgotten all about having emptied them. So he
was very much astonished to find, some time afterwards, both barley and rice growing near his
tent, in the shade of the rock. The ears, when ripe, he kept to sow again, and from this very
small beginning, in the course of a few seasons, he had a great quantity of grain, both for
food and for sowing. But this meant every year much hard work, for he had no plow nor harrow,
and all the ground had to be dug with a clumsy spade, made from a very hard, heavy wood that
grew on the island.

At first Robinson could not grind the grain that he grew, nor make bread from it. If he could
have found a large stone, slightly hollow on top, he might, by pounding the grain on it with
another round stone, have made very good meal. But all the stones he could find were too soft,
and in the end he had to make a sort of mill of hard wood, in which he burnt a hollow place,
and on that he pounded the grain into meal with a heavy stick.

Baking he did by building a big fire, then raking away the ashes, and putting the dough on
the hot place, covered with a kind of basin made of clay, over which he heaped the red ashes.
In this way very good bread can be made.

Before the rainy season was over, and just after he had finished the fence round his tent,
one day when Robinson was at work in the cave, all of a sudden the earth began to fall from
the roof, and the strong props he had put in cracked in a way which frightened him terribly.
At the same time there was a curious moaning, rumbling noise, that he could not understand.
He rushed out, and so afraid was he that the roof was falling in, and that he should be buried,
that he got over the fence and began to run.

But he was even more frightened when he found that all the ground was shaking. Then he knew
that this was an earthquake.

Three times there came violent shocks; a huge rock about half a mile away fell with a great
noise like thunder, and the sea was churned up as if by a whirlwind. Robinson was sick with
the movement of the ground, and trembling with the dread of being swallowed by the earth as
it cracked and gaped; and after the noise and shaking were over, he was too frightened to go
back to his tent, but sat where he was, all the time expecting another shock.

Suddenly a furious wind began to blow, tearing up trees by the roots, and lashing the water
till nothing could be seen but foam and flying spray. The air was full of branches and leaves
torn off by the hurricane, and birds in hundreds were swept helpless out to sea. In about three
hours, as suddenly as it had begun, the wind fell, and there was a dead calm, followed by rain
such as Robinson had never before seen, which soaked him to the skin, and forced him to return
to the cave, where he sat in great fear.

For long after this he was very uneasy, and made up his mind to shift his quarters as soon
as he could find a better place for his tent. But the earthquake had one good result, for what
remained of the wreck was again thrown up by the sea, and Robinson got more things out of it
which were useful to him, and for days he worked hard at that. One day, too, when he was on
his way to the remains of the ship, he came on a large turtle, which he killed, and this gave
him plenty of good food, for besides the flesh, there were, inside the animal, many eggs, which
she had come to the shore to lay in the sand, as is the habit of turtles, and which Robinson
thought were even better than hen's eggs.

Now a few days after he had got so wet in the heavy rain, though the weather was hot, Robinson
felt very cold and shivery, and had pains all over his body, and at night he dreamed terrible
dreams. The following day, and many days, he lay very ill with fever and ague, and hardly knew
what he was doing. So weak was he, that he believed he was dying, and there was no one to give
him water to quench his thirst, nor to help him in any way. His only medicine was rum, in which
he had soaked tobacco. It was very nasty, and made him sick, but it also made him sleep for
more than a whole day and a night, and he woke much better, and able to walk about a little,
though for a fortnight he was too weak to work. From this illness he learned not to go out
more than he could help during the rainy season.

When he was again quite strong, Robinson started to explore the island better than he had yet
done, and he found many things growing, of which he made great use afterwards, tobacco, sugar-cane,
and all manner of fruits, among them grapes, which he used to dry to raisins in the sun in
great quantities.

Near the spot where the most fruit grew, he built a hut, and round it, for safety, he put a
double fence made of stakes cut from some of the trees near at hand. During the next rainy
season these stakes took root, and grew so fast that soon nothing of the hut could be seen
from outside the hedge, and it made so good a hiding-place, that Robinson cut more stakes of
the same kind, and planted them outside the fence around his first dwelling; and in a year
or two that also was quite hidden from view. The twigs of this tree, too, were good for making
baskets, of which he had been in great need.

When he had finished all this work, he started again to go over the rest of the island, and
on his way across, from a hill, the day being very clear, he saw high land a great way off
over the water, but whether it was another island, or the coast of America, he could not be sure.

When he reached the other side of his island Robinson found the beach covered with turtles
in astonishing numbers, and he thought how much better off he would have been if he had been
cast ashore here, for not only would the turtles have supplied him with plenty of food, but
there were far more birds than on the part of the island where he had been living, and far
more goats.

During the journey back to his castle he caught a young parrot, which, after a long time, he
taught to speak and to call him by his name. It was so long since he had heard any voice, that
it was a comfort to listen even to a parrot talking.

Now, the sight which Robinson had had of the far distant land raised in him again the great
longing to get away from this island where he had been so long alone, and he wished greatly
for a boat. He went over to the remains of the boat in which he and the others had tried to
come ashore when their ship struck on the sand-bank, and which had been flung far up on the
beach by the sea, and he worked for weeks trying to repair her and to get her into the water.
But it was all of no use; he could not move her.

Then, he thought, "I'll cut down a tree, and make a new boat." This he fancied would be easy,
for he had heard how the Indians make canoes by felling a tree and burning out the inside.
"If they can do it, then surely I can do it even better," he thought. So he looked about, and
chose a huge tree which stood about a hundred yards from the water, and with great labor in
about three weeks he had cut it down.

Four months Robinson worked at this boat, thinking all the time of what he would do when he
reached the far distant land, and much pleased with himself for the beautiful boat he was making.
Day after day he trimmed and shaped it, and very proud he was when it was finished and lay
there on the ground, big enough to carry twenty men.

Then he started to get her into the water. But that was quite another thing. By no means in
his power could he move her an inch, try as he might. She was far too big. Then he began to
dig a canal from the sea to the boat; but before he had got much of that work done, he saw
clearly that there was so much earth to dig away, that, without some one to help him, it must
take years and years before he could get the water to the boat. So he gave it up, and left
her to lie and rot in the sun and the rain--a great grief to him.

IV

ROBINSON BUILDS A SECOND BOAT, IN WHICH HE IS SWEPT OUT TO SEA

By the time that Robinson had been four years on the island, all his clothes had become very
ragged, and he had hardly anything that could be called a hat. Clothes he must have, for he
could not go naked without getting his skin blistered by the hot sun, and he was afraid of
getting a sunstroke if he went about without a hat.

Now he had kept all the skins of the goats, and other animals, such as hares and foxes, that
he had shot; and from these, after many failures, at last he made a hat and coat of goatskin,
and a pair of short trousers, all with the hair outside, so as to shoot off the wet when it
rained. The hat was very tall, and came to a sharp peak on top, and it had a flap which hung
down the back of his neck. Robinson also, with much trouble, made of the skins an umbrella
which he could open and shut; and if his clothes and his umbrella, and especially his hat,
were not very good to look at, they were useful, and he could now go about in any weather.

During the next five years nothing out of the common happened, and Robinson's time was mostly
taken up with the getting of food, the yearly sowing and reaping of his crops, and the curing
of his raisins. But towards the end of that time he made another attempt to build a boat, and
this time he made one much smaller than the first, and though it took him nearly two years
to finish, in the end he got her into the sea. She was not big enough for him to try to sail
in to the far-off land that he had seen, and he used her only for cruising about the shores
of his own island, and for fishing. In her he fixed a little mast, on which he rigged a small
sail, made from a bit of one of the old ship's sails, and, using a paddle to steer with, he
found that she sailed very well. Over the stern he fixed his big umbrella, to shade him from
the sun, like an awning.

Eager to go all round the island, one day Robinson put a lot of food on board, and, taking
his gun, started on a voyage. All went well till he came to the east end of the island, where
he found that a ledge of rocks, and beyond that a sand-bank, stretched out to sea for eight
or nine miles. Robinson did not like the idea of venturing so far in a boat so small, and he
therefore ran the boat ashore, and climbed a hill, to get a good view of the rocks and shoals
before going near them. From the hill, he saw that a strong current was sweeping past the sand-bank,
which showed just clear of the water, and on which the sea was breaking; but he thought there
was an eddy which would swing him safely round the point, without bringing him near the breakers.
However, that day and the next, there was a good deal of wind blowing in the direction contrary
to the current, which, of course, raised a sea too big for a small boat, so Robinson stopped
on shore where he was.

On the third day it was calm, and he set off. But no sooner had he come abreast of the sand-bank
than he found himself in very deep water, with a current running like a mill-race, which carried
the boat further and further away from the land, in spite of all that he could do with his
paddle. There was no wind, and the sail was useless.

Now he gave himself up for lost, for the harder he worked, only the further away seemed the
boat to be swept. The island was soon so far off that Robinson could hardly see it, and he
was quite exhausted with the hard struggle to paddle the boat against the current. He was in
despair, and giving up paddling, left the boat to drift where she would. Just then a faint
puff of wind touched his cheek, and Robinson hurriedly hoisted his sail. Soon a good breeze
blew, which carried him past a dangerous reef of rocks. Here the current seemed to divide,
the part in which he now was began to swing round towards the island, and he plucked up heart
again, and with his paddle did all he could to help the sail. Robinson felt like a man who
is set free after he has been told that he must die; he could almost have wept for joy. Miles
and miles he sailed, steadily getting nearer to the land, and late in the evening at last he
got ashore, but on the other side of the point that he had tried to round in the morning. He
drew up his boat on the shore of a little cove that he found, and when he had made her fast,
so that the tide could not carry her away, there among the trees he lay down, and slept sound,
quite worn out.

In the morning he again got on board, and coasted along close inshore, till he came to a bay
with a little river running into it, which made a very good harbor for the boat. Here he left
her, and went on foot.

Soon he found that he was not far from a spot that he had once before visited, and by afternoon
he arrived at the hut which he called his country-house. Robinson got over the fence by the
ladder, as usual, pulling it up after him, and then he lay down to rest in the shade, for he
was still very weary from the hard work of the day before. Soon he fell asleep. But what was
his surprise in a little time to be awakened by a voice calling, "Robin! Robin Crusoe! where
are you?"

At first he thought he was dreaming. But still the voice went on calling:

"Where are you, Robin?"

Up he jumped, trembling with fright and wonder, for it was so long since he had heard any voice
but his own that he fancied it must be something more than human that he now listened to. But
no sooner had he risen than he saw, sitting on the tree near to him, his parrot, which must
have flown all the way from Robinson's other house, where it had been left. It was talking
away at a great rate, very excited at again seeing its master, and Robinson hardly knew whether
to be more relieved or disappointed that it was only the bird that had called him.

For about a year after this Robinson kept to his own side of the island, and employed his time
chiefly in working on his land, and in making dishes and pots of clay. These he had now learned
to burn properly. Pipes, too, he made, and they were a great comfort to him, for he managed
to cure very good tobacco from the wild plants that grew around. And as he feared lest his
powder might begin to run short, he thought much over ways whereby he could trap goats for
food, instead of shooting them. After many trials, the best plan, he decided, was to dig holes,
which he covered with thin branches and leaves, on which he sprinkled earth, so that when anything
heavy passed over, it must fall into the pit. By this means he caught many, and the kids he
kept and tamed, so that in no great time he had quite a large herd of goats. These he kept
in various small fields, round which from time to time he had put fences. This time, however,
when he got to the hill from which he had watched the set of the current the day that he had
been carried out to sea, he noticed that there was no current to be seen, from which he concluded
that it must depend on the ebb and flow of the tide. Still, he was afraid to venture far in
the canoe, though he stopped some time at his country-house, and went out sailing very often.

One day when Robinson was walking along the sand towards his boat, suddenly, close to the water,
he stopped as if he had been shot, and, with thumping heart, stood staring in wonder and fear
at something that he saw. The mark of a naked foot on the sand! It could not be his own, he
knew, for the shape was quite different. Whose could it be?

He listened, he looked about, but nothing could he hear or see. To the top of a rising ground
he ran, and looked all around. There was nothing to be seen. And though he searched everywhere
on the beach for more footmarks, he found none.

Whose footprint could it be? That of some man, perhaps, he thought, who might come stealing
on him out from the trees, or murder him while he slept.

Back to his house he hurried, all the way in a state of terror, starting every now and again
and facing round, thinking he was being followed, and fancying often that a stump or a bush
was a man, waiting to spring on him. That night he slept not at all, and so shaken was his
nerve that every cry of a night-bird, even every sound made by an insect or a frog, caused
him to start with fear, so that the perspiration ran down his brow.

As day followed day, however, and nothing happened, Robinson began to be less uneasy in his
mind, and went about his usual work again. But he strengthened the fence round his castle,
and cut in it seven small loopholes, in which, fixed on frames, he placed loaded muskets, all
ready to fire if he should be attacked. And some distance from the outside of the fence he
planted a thick belt of small stakes, so that in a few years' time a perfect thicket of trees
and bushes hid all trace of his dwelling.

Years passed quietly, and nothing further happened to disturb Robinson, or to make him think
more of the footprint that had frightened him so much. But he kept more than formerly to the
interior of the island, and lost no chance of looking for good places to hide in, if he should
ever need them. And he always carried a cutlass now, as well as his gun and a couple of pistols.

One day it chanced, however, that he had gone further to the west of the island than he had
ever done before, and, looking over the sea, he fancied that he saw, at a great distance, something
like a boat or a long canoe, but it was so far off that he he could not be sure what it was.
This made him determine that always in future he would bring with him to his lookout-place
the telescope which he had saved from the wreck.

The sight of this supposed boat brought back his uneasiness to some extent, but he went on
down to the beach, and there he saw a sight which filled him with horror. All about the shore
were scattered men's skulls and bones, and bits of burnt flesh, and in one place were the remains
of a big fire. Robinson stood aghast, feeling deadly sick. It was easy for him to know the
meaning of the terrible sight. It meant that cannibals had been there, killing and eating their
prisoners; for when the natives of some parts of the world go to war, and catch any of their
enemies, it is their habit to build a fire, then to kill the prisoners and feast on their roasted
bodies, eating till they can eat no more. Sometimes, if the man they are going to eat is too
thin, they keep him, and feed him up, till they think he is fat enough.

Now Robinson knew all this, though he had never yet met any cannibals. And when he looked around
he saw many bones lying about. They were so old that it seemed certain to him that all those
years he had been living on an island which was a regular place for the natives to come to
for such feasts. Then he saw what a mercy it was that he had been wrecked on the other side
of the island, to which, he supposed, the cannibals never came, because the beach was not so
good for them to land on.

Full of horror, Robinson hurried back to his house, and for almost two years he never again
came near that part of the island where the bones lay, nor ever visited his boat. But all the
time he kept thinking how he might some day kill those cannibals while they were at their feast,
and perhaps save some of the poor men whom they had not yet killed.

Now one day when Robinson was down in the bottom of the valley, cutting thick branches to burn
for charcoal, he cleared away some undergrowth at the foot of a great rock, in which, near
the ground, there was a sort of hole, or opening. Into this hole Robinson squeezed, not very
easily, and found himself in a cave of good size, high enough, at least, to stand up in. It
was quite dark, of course, to him coming in from the sunlight, and he turned his back to the
entrance to feel his way further in, when suddenly, from the back of the cave he saw two great
fiery eyes glaring at him. His very hair bristled with fright, for he could only think that
it must be the Devil at least that he saw; and through the mouth of the cave he fled with a yell.

But when he got into the bright sunshine he began to feel ashamed of his panic, and to reason
with himself that what he had seen must be only his own fancy. So, taking up a big burning
branch from his fire, in he went again.

Before Robinson had taken three steps he stopped, in almost as great a fright as at first.
Close to him he heard a great sigh, as if of some one in pain, then a sound like a muttering,
as of words that he could not understand; again another deep sigh. Cold sweat broke out all
over him, and he stepped back trembling, yet determined this time not to run away.

Holding his torch well over his head, he looked around, and there on the floor of the cave
lay a huge old he goat, gasping for breath, dying, seemingly of mere old age.

He stirred him with his toe to see if he could get him out of the cave, but the poor beast
could not rise, and Robinson left him to die where he was.

Now that he had got over his fright, Robinson looked carefully about him. The cave was small,
not more than twelve feet across at its widest, but he noticed at the far end another opening.
This was so low down, however, that he had to creep on his hands and knees to get in, and without
a better light than the burning torch, he could not see how far it went. So he made up his
mind to come again.

Robinson had long before this made a good supply of very fair candles from the tallow of the
goats he had killed, and next day he returned to the cave with six of these, and his tinder-box
to light them with. In those days there were no matches, and men used to strike a light with
a flint and steel, and tinder, which was a stuff that caught fire very easily from a spark.

Entering the cave, Robinson found, on lighting a candle, that the goat was now dead. Moving
it aside, to be buried later, he went down on his hands and knees, and crawled about ten yards
through the small passage, till at last he found himself in a great chamber, the roof of which
was quite twenty feet high. On every side the walls reflected the light of his candle, and
glittered like gold, or almost like diamonds, he thought. The floor was perfectly dry and level,
even on the walls there was no damp, and Robinson was delighted with his discovery. Its only
drawback was the low entrance; but, as he decided to use the cave chiefly as a place to retreat
to if he should ever be attacked, that was in reality an advantage, because one man, if he
had firearms could easily defend it against hundreds.

At once Robinson set about storing in it all his powder, except three or four pounds, all his
lead for making bullets, and his spare guns and muskets. When moving the powder, he thought
he might as well open a barrel which had drifted ashore out of the wreck 'after the earthquake,
and though water had got into it, there was not a great deal of damage done, for the powder
had crusted on the outside only, and in the inside there was about sixty pounds weight, quite
dry and good. This, with what remained of the first lot, gave him a very large supply, enough
to last all his life.

For more than two-and-twenty years Robinson had now been in the island, and he had grown quite
used to it, and to his manner of living. If he could only have been sure that no savages would
come near him, he felt almost that he would be content to spend all the rest of his days there,
to die at last, as the goat he found in the cave had died, of old age.

At times, when his spirits were more than usually low, when the burden of the lonely years
pressed most heavily upon him, Robinson used to think that surely if the savages could come
to his land, he could go to theirs. How far did they come? Where was their country? What kind
of boats had they? And so eager to go was he sometimes, that he forgot to think of what he
would do when he got there, or what would become of him if he fell into the hands of the savages.
His mind was utterly taken up with the one thought of getting to the mainland, and even his
dreams were of little else.

One night, when he had put himself almost into a fever with the trouble of his mind, he had
lain long awake, tossing and moaning, but at last he had fallen asleep. And he dreamed, not
as he had usually done of late, that he was sailing to the mainland, but that as he was leaving
his castle in the morning he saw on the shore two canoes and eleven savages landing, and that
they had with them another man, whom they were just about to kill and eat, when suddenly the
prisoner jumped up and ran for his life. And in his dream Robinson fancied that the man came
running to hide in the thicket round the castle, and that thereupon he went out to help him.
Then in the dream, the savage kneeled down, as if begging for mercy, and Robinson took him
over the ladder into the castle, saying to himself, "Now that I've got this fellow, I can certainly
go to the mainland, for he will show me what course to steer, and where to go when we land."
And he woke, with the joyful feeling that now at last all was well. But when he was wide awake,
and knew that it was only a dream after all, poor Robinson was more cast down than ever, and
more unhappy than he had been during all the years he had lived on the island.

The dream had, however, this result; that he saw his only plan to get away was, if possible,
to rescue some day one of the prisoners whom the cannibals were about to kill, and in time
get the man to help him to navigate his canoe across the sea.

With this idea, he set himself to watch, more closely than ever he had done before, for the
savages to land, and during more than a year and a half he went nearly every day to his lookout-place,
and swept the sea with his telescope, in the hope of seeing canoes coming. But none came, and
Robinson was getting terribly tired of the constant watch. Still he did not give up, for he
knew that sooner or later the savages would land again.

Yet many months passed, and still they did not come, till one morning, very early, almost to
his surprise, he saw no fewer than five canoes hauled up on the shore on his own side of the
island. The savages who had come in them were nowhere to be seen. Now, he knew that always
from four to six men came in each canoe, which meant that at least twenty, and perhaps as many
as thirty men had landed.

This was a greater number than he cared to face, so he kept inside his castle, in great doubt
what to do, but ready to fight, in case they should attack him.

When he had waited a long time and still could hear nothing of the savages, he climbed up his
ladder and got to the top of the rock, taking great care not to show himself against the skyline.
Looking through his glass, he saw that there were at least thirty savages, dancing wildly round
a fire.

As he looked, some of the men left the others, and going over to the canoes dragged from' them
two prisoners. One of these almost at once fell forward on his face, knocked down from behind,
as it seemed to Robinson, with a wooden club, and two or three of the cannibals at once cut
him open to be ready for cooking, while for a moment or two they left the other prisoner standing
by himself.

Seeing a chance of escape, the man made a dash for his life, running with tremendous speed
along the sands straight for that part of the beach near Robinson's castle.

Now this alarmed Robinson very much, for it seemed to him that the whole of the savages started
after the prisoner. He could not help thinking it likely that, as in his dream, this man would
take shelter in the thicket round the castle, in which case Robinson was likely soon to have
more fighting than he would relish, for the whole body of the cannibals would be on him at once.

As he watched the poor man racing for life, however, he was relieved to see that he ran much
faster than his pursuers, of whom only three continued to run after him. If he could hold out
for another mile or two there was little doubt that he would escape. Between the castle and
the runners was the creek up which Robinson used to run his rafts from the wreck, and when
the escaped prisoner came to that, he plunged in, and though the tide was full, with less than
thirty powerful strokes he reached the other side, and with long easy strides continued his
run. Of the men in pursuit, two also plunged in and swam through, but less quickly than the
man escaping, being more blown with running, because of what they had eaten before starting.
The third man stopped altogether, and went back the way he came.

Seeing the turn things were taking, it seemed to Robinson that now had come his chance to get
a servant, and he resolved to try to save the life of the man who was fleeing from the cannibals.
At once he hurried down the ladder, snatched up his two guns, and running as fast as he could,
got between the man and his pursuers, calling out to him at the same time to stop. The man
looked back, and the sight of Robinson seemed to frighten him at first as much as did the men
who were trying to catch him. But Robinson again spoke, and signed to him with his hand to
come back, and in the meantime went slowly towards the other men, who were now coming near.
Then, rushing at the foremost, he knocked him senseless with the butt of his gun, for it seemed
to him safer not to fire, lest the noise should bring the other cannibals around.

The second man, seeing his comrade fall, hesitated, and stopped, but Robinson saw when nearer
to him that the savage had in his hands a bow and arrow with which he was just about to shoot.
There was then no choice but to fire first, which Robinson did, killing the man on the spot.

Thereupon the man who had been chased by the others was so terrified by the flash and noise
of the gun, and at seeing his enemy fall dead, that he stood stock still, trembling, and it
was with great difficulty that Robinson coaxed him to come near. This at last he did, stopping
every few paces and kneeling down. At length, coming close to Robinson, he again knelt, kissed
the ground, and taking hold of Robinson's foot, set it on his head as it rested on the sand.

While this was going on, Robinson noticed that the savage whom he had knocked down had begun
to move, and to come to his senses. To this he drew the attention of the man whom he had rescued,
who said some words that Robinson could not understand, but which sounded pleasant to an ear
that had heard no voice but his own for more than twenty-five years. Next he made a motion
with his hand, as if asking for the cutlass that hung at Robinson's belt, and when the weapon
was given to him he ran at his enemy, and with one clean blow cut off his head. Then, laughing,
he brought the head, and laid it with the cutlass at Robinson's feet.

But what caused most wonder to the man was how the savage whom Robinson shot had been killed
at so great a distance, and he went to look as the body, turning it over and over, and looking
long at the wound in the breast that the bullet had made, evidently much puzzled.

Robinson then turned to go away, beckoning to the savage to follow, but the man made signs
that he would bury the two bodies in the sand, so that the others might not find them if they
followed. With his hands he soon scraped holes deep enough to cover the bodies, and in less
than a quarter of an hour there was hardly a trace left of what had happened.

Calling him away, Robinson now took him, not to his castle, but to the cave, where he gave
him food and water; and then he made signs for him to lie down and rest, pointing to a bundle
of rice straw.

Soon the man was sound asleep. He was, Robinson thought, a handsome and well-made man; the
muscles of his arms and back and legs showed great strength, and all his limbs were beautifully
formed. As near as Robinson could guess, he was about twenty-six years of age, with a good
and manly face, and long black hair. His nose and lips were like those of a European, and his
teeth were white and even. In color he was not black, but of a sort of rich chocolate brown,
the skin shining with health, and pleasant to look upon. First he made him understand that
his name was to be "Friday" (that being the day of the week when Robinson had saved him from
a horrible death). Then he taught him the meaning of "Yes," and "No," and to call Robinson
"Master."

Friday showed great quickness in learning. He seemed to be happy and contented, and free from
trouble, except that the clothes which Robinson made him wear gave him at first great discomfort,
for in those warm parts of the world the natives are not used to clothes, but always go about
naked.

The day following that on which Robinson had saved Friday, they went out together to see if
there were any signs of the cannibals still being on the island, but it was evident that they
had gone away without troubling about the two men whom Robinson had killed.

For some time Robinson did not trust Friday, and did not allow him to sleep in the same part
of his castle with himself, but kept him at night in a little tent outside the fence.

Friday was quite faithful, never sulky nor lazy, but always merry, and ready to do anything
that Robinson told him.

At first when they went out in the woods together, Friday was terrified each time that Robinson's
gun was fired. He had never seen anything like it, and it was more than he could understand
how things could be killed merely by the noise and the flash of fire.

Friday told Robinson much about his country, and about his people, who he said were Caribs.
And a great way "beyond the moon," by which he meant to the west, he said that white men lived
who had beards such as Robinson wore. These white men, he said, had killed very many natives,
from which Robinson fancied that they must be Spaniards, who about that time were very cruel
to the people whose countries they had taken.

Robinson asked if Friday could tell him how he might get over to where the white men lived,
and Friday said it would be very easy, if they had a big canoe, and again Robinson began to
make plans and to hope to escape from the island.

Some time after this Robinson and Friday chanced to be on the high hill at the east end of
the island. The day was very clear. Friday gazed long over the sea, and then began to jump
and dance, pointing to the dim blue coast. "There my country! See! There my people live!" he
said, his eyes sparkling with joy, and an eager light on his face.

After this, for a time Robinson was not easy in his mind about Friday. He had little doubt
that if he could get back to his tribe, he would soon forget all he had been taught, might
even return with a hundred or two of his friends, and kill and eat his master. But in this
Robinson was very unjust to Friday, who had no such thoughts in his mind as those of which
he was suspected. And this Robinson soon found out. One day he asked Friday if he would not
be glad to be once more in his own land.

"Yes" said Friday; "very glad."

"Would you eat man's flesh again?"

"No, never," said Friday.

Then Robinson asked why he did not go back. Friday said he would go if Robinson came too.

Then Robinson, who thought if he could reach other white men, he would finally reach England,
began to build a boat in which to leave the island. Together he and Friday went to work to
fell a tree, and Friday soon showed that he knew far better than Robinson the kind of tree
best suited for boat-making. Robinson showed him how to use tools, and in a little more than
a month the boat was finished. After the boat was put into the water, Robinson was astonished
at Friday's skill in paddling so large a canoe.

"Will she do to go over in?" he asked, and Friday, grinning, said, "Yes, even if big wind blow."
But Robinson did not mean to depend on paddling, and fitted the boat with a mast, sails and rudder.

Twenty-six years had passed since Robinson came to the island, and he still went on digging
and sowing. One morning he sent Friday down to the beach for a turtle. Back he came in a great
hurry, crying out, "Master! Master! over yonder, one, two, three canoe." Loading his guns,
Robinson gave them to Friday to carry, while he armed himself with muskets, a cutlass, and
a hatchet.

When all was ready he went up the hill with his telescope, and saw that there were in all twenty-one
savages, with three prisoners, one of whom was a white man.

Robinson knew the savages had landed on the island to kill and eat their prisoners, so he resolved
to prevent them if possible. To get at the savages without being seen, they had to go nearly
a mile out of their way, and being heavily laden they could not go very fast. Reaching the
place, they saw, from behind a clump of bushes, the white man bound hand and foot on the sand.
There was no time to lose, and their first shot killed three and wounded five of the savages.
Snatching up fresh guns, both fired again, before the savages who were not hurt could get on
their feet, for they were so taken by surprise, that the poor wretches hardly knew what was
happening. This time only two dropped, but many more were wounded.

While Friday kept on firing, Robinson ran to the white prisoner and cut his bonds. The man
said he was a Spaniard and began to thank Robinson for what he had done. Robinson handed him
the cutlass and a pistol, telling him, if he had any strength left, to go and do what he could
against the savages. As soon as the man got the weapons in his hands, he ran with fury at the
cannibals and cut two down, and with equal fury attacked the rest. With the Spaniard to help
them, Robinson and Friday were soon able to clear the place of these dreadful cannibals, many
of whom jumped into the sea.

Friday advised Robinson to take a canoe and go after them lest they return with hundreds of
others to avenge the death of their friends. So the two ran to the beach and began to shove
off a canoe. But to their surprise, on the bottom of the canoe lay another prisoner, an old
man, tied so hard, neck and heels, that even when his bonds were cut he could not move.

No sooner did Friday look at him and hear him speak, than he began to dance and shout and laugh,
and then kneeling down, rubbed noses with the savage (which is what these folks do instead
of kissing each other), and he was so excited that for some time he could not explain what
was the matter. As soon as he could speak, he told Robinson that the man whom they had found
was his father.

Both Friday's father and the Spaniard, who was worn out with fighting, had to be carried up
to the castle.

No cannibals were ever again known to visit this island.

VII

ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP; ROBINSON SAILS FOR HOME

Soon after this Robinson had a long talk with the Spaniard, who told him how he and his comrades
had been wrecked four years since, on that part of the coast where Friday's tribe lived. He
said that they were well treated by the natives, but that they were put to very great straits
now for want of clothes, that their powder was finished, and that they had lost all hope of
ever getting back to their own country. He himself, he said, had been captured in one of the
many small wars that are always taking place among the various tribes.

It struck Robinson that it might be possible for him to get these men over to his island, provided
that he could be sure of their good faith, and that when they came, they did not take the island
from him by treachery. It was a risk, he thought, but then, if he got so many men, it would
not be difficult to build a small ship that could carry them all to England.

So he asked the Spaniard if he would promise, and if he thought he could get his comrades to
take an oath that, if Robinson helped them, they would look on him as their captain, and would
swear to obey him in all things. The Spaniard readily promised for himself, and said that he
was sure his comrades would keep faith.

It was arranged, therefore, that in about six months, when the next harvest was reaped, and
there would be plenty of food for so many extra men, the Spaniard and Friday's father should
go over to the mainland in one of the canoes which had been taken from the savages.

Meantime, all hands set about the curing of very large quantities of raisins, and much other
work was done to be in readiness for the coming of these men.

When the harvest was reaped, Robinson gave the Spaniard and Friday's father each a musket and
a supply of powder and bullets, and loaded the canoe with food, enough to last them and the
others about a fortnight, and the two men set off for the mainland in fine weather, and with
a fair wind.

It was about eight days after this, and when Robinson had begun to look out for their return,
that one morning very early, when Robinson was asleep, Friday came running in, shouting, "Master!
Master! They come." Up jumped Robinson, and hurrying on his clothes, ran out.

Looking towards the sea, he soon made out a sailing-boat making for the shore, coming from
the south end of the island, but still some miles away. This was not the direction from which
the Spaniard and his comrades would come, nor were they likely to be in a sailing-boat. So
Robinson took his telescope, and went to the top of the hill to see if he could make out who
were on board, before they landed.

Hardly had he got on to the hill when he noticed a ship at anchor some distance from the shore.
She looked like an English vessel, he thought, and the boat like an English long-boat.

This was a wonderful sight to Robinson, but yet he was not easy in his mind. It was not a part
of the world where an English ship was likely to come, because in those days they were nearly
all Spanish vessels that traded in these seas, and the English and Spaniards were bitter enemies.
What could an English ship be doing here? There had been no storm to drive her out of her course.

Robinson feared that if she was English there must be something wrong about her. Perhaps, he
thought, she was a pirate. So he was careful not to show himself or Friday.

Presently, as he watched, he saw the men in the boat run her ashore and draw her up on the
beach, about half a mile from his castle. When they had landed, he could easily see through
his glass that they were Englishmen.

There were eleven men, but three of them had their hands tied behind their backs, and were
evidently prisoners. When the first four or five men had jumped ashore, they brought out these
three, all the while ill-treating them, and behaving as if they meant to kill their prisoners.
Friday was sure that they meant to eat them.

Soon, without further harming the three men, the others scattered about among the trees near
the shore, leaving the three sitting on the ground very sad-looking, but with their hands now
untied.

At the time the boat was run aground, it was just high-water, and the two sailors who had been
left in charge of her, and who had evidently been drinking too much rum, went to sleep, and
never noticed that the tide was going out. When they woke, the boat was high and dry, and with
all the strength of the whole crew they could not move her, because the sand at that part of
the beach was very soft. This did not seem to trouble any of them very much, for Robinson heard
one of the sailors shout, "Let her alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float next tide."

All forenoon Robinson watched, and when the hottest time of the day had come, he noticed the
sailors throw themselves down under the trees, and go to sleep, some distance away from the
three prisoners.

Then Robinson and Friday, taking their muskets and pistols, stole down cautiously behind the
three men, to try to speak to them without the others knowing.

Robinson had put on his goatskin coat and the great hairy hat that he had made for himself;
and with his cutlass and pistols in his belt, and a gun over each shoulder, he looked very fierce.

The men did not see him till he spoke, and they were so startled by his wild look, and by the
sight of two men armed to the teeth, that they nearly ran away. But Robinson told them not
to be alarmed; he was an Englishman, and a friend, and would help them if they would show him
how it could be done.

Then they explained to him what had happened. One of the three was Captain of the ship that
lay at anchor off the island. Of the others, one was mate of the ship, and the third man was
a passenger. The crew had mutinied, the Captain told Robinson, and had put him and the other
two in irons, and the ringleaders in the mutiny had proposed to kill them. Now they meant to
leave them on the island to perish.

The Captain was so astonished at finding anybody there who proposed to help him, that he said
in his wonder: "Am I talking to a man, or to an angel from heaven?"

"If the Lord had sent an angel, sir," said Robinson, "he would probably have come better clothed."

Then he asked if the boat's crew had any firearms, and was told that they had only two muskets,
one of which was left in the boat. "The rest should be easy, then," Robinson said; "we can
either kill them all, or take them prisoners, as we please."

The Captain was unwilling to see the men killed, for he said if two of the worst of them were
got rid of, he believed the rest would return to their duty.

Robinson made a bargain that if he saved the Captain from the mutineers, and recovered the
ship, he and Friday were to be taken home to England in her, free of cost; and to this the
Captain and the others agreed.

Then Robinson gave each of them a musket, with powder and ball, after which the Captain and
the mate and the passenger marched towards the spot where the mutinous sailors lay asleep.
One of the men heard them advance, and turning round, saw them, and cried out to his companions.
But it was too late, the mate and the passenger fired, and one of the ringleaders fell dead.
A second man also fell, but jumped up immediately and called to the others to help him. But
the Captain knocked him down with the butt of his musket, and the rest of the men, seeing Robinson
and Friday coming, and knowing they had no chance against five armed men, begged for mercy.
Three others who had been straying about among the trees came back on hearing the shots, and
were also taken, and thus the whole crew of the boat was captured.

The Captain and Robinson now began to think how they might recover the ship. There were on
board, the Captain said, several men on whom he thought he could depend, and who had been forced
by the others into the mutiny against their wills. But it would be no easy thing to retake
the ship, for there were still twenty-six men on board, and as they were guilty of mutiny,
all of them, if taken back to England, would most likely be hanged. Thus they were certain
to make a fight for it.

The first thing that Robinson and the others now did was to take everything out of the boat--oars,
and mast, and sail, and rudder; then they knocked a hole in her bottom, so that she could not
float. While they were doing this, and drawing her still further up on the beach, they heard
first one gun and then another fired by the ship as signals to the boat to return.

As she of course did not move, Robinson saw through his glass another boat with ten men on
board, armed with muskets, leave the ship, coming to bring the others back.

This was serious enough, for now Robinson and his party had to make plans whereby they might
capture also this fresh boat's crew. Accordingly, they tied the hands of all the men they had
first taken, and sent the worst of them to the cave under the charge of Friday and of one of
the men that the Captain said was to be trusted, with orders to shoot any who tried to give
an alarm or to escape. Then Robinson took his party and the rest of the prisoners into the
castle, where, from the rock, they watched for the landing of the second boat.

The Captain and mate were very nervous, and despaired of taking this fresh body of men, but
Robinson was quite confident of success, and put heart into them by his cheerfulness.

Of the prisoners in his castle, there were two whom the Captain believed to be honest men,
and on their promising solemnly to keep faith, and to fight for him, Robinson released them.

The crew of the second boat, when they landed, were terribly surprised to find the first boat
empty and stove in, and they were seen anxiously consulting what to do. Then they hallooed
and fired volleys. Getting no reply, they were evidently alarmed, for they all jumped into
their boat and began to pull off to the ship. In a few minutes, however, they seemed to change
their minds, for again they landed, this time leaving three men in charge of the boat, and
keeping her in the water. The other seven came ashore, and started in a body across the island
to look for their lost comrades. But they did not care to go far, and soon stopped, again firing
volleys and hallooing. Getting again no reply, they began to march back to the sea. Whereupon
Robinson ordered Friday and the mate to go over the creek to the west and halloo loudly, and
wait till the sailors answered. Then Friday and the mate were to go further away and again
halloo, thus gradually getting the men to follow them away from shore.

This plan succeeded very well, for when the sailors, thinking they heard their missing friends
hail, ran to find them, their way was stopped by the creek, over which they had to get the
boat to carry them. They took with them, then, one of the three men whom they had left in the
boat, and ordered the others to moor the boat to a tree, and remain there.

This was just what Robinson wanted. And, moreover, one of the men played still further into
his hands, for he left the boat and lay down under a tree to sleep. On him the Captain rushed,
and knocked him down as he tried to rise to his feet, whereupon the sailor left in the boat
yielded, and more readily that he had joined the mutineers very unwillingly, and was now glad
of the chance to rejoin his Captain.

Meantime Friday and the mate, by hallooing and answering, drew the rest of the boat's crew
from hill to hill through the woods, till at last they had got them so far astray that it was
not possible for them to find their way back before dark. When they did get back to where the
boat had been left, and found the men whom they had left in her gone, they were in a terrible
fright.

It was not difficult for Robinson and his men to surround them, and it chanced that the boatswain
of the ship, who was the greatest villain of the lot, and the chief cause of all the trouble,
walked in the darkness close to the Captain, who jumped up and shot him dead. The others then
surrendered, believing what they were told, that they were surrounded by fifty armed men. All
begged hard for their lives, and a few whom the Captain said he could trust were set at liberty
on promising to help retake the ship. The others were bound and put in the cave.

Robinson and Friday remained on shore to look after the prisoners, while the Captain and the
mate and the passenger, with those of the crew who were trustworthy, having patched up the
damaged boat, pulled off in her and in the other to the ship, which they reached about midnight.
When they were a short distance off, the Captain made one of the crew hail the ship and say
that they had brought off the boat and the men they had gone in search of. Then both boats
ran alongside at once, one on each side of the vessel, and before the mutineers knew what was
happening they were overpowered, one or two of them being killed. Only one of the Captain's
party was hurt, the mate, whose arm was broken by a musket-ball.

Robinson's stay in the island had now come to an end, after more than twenty-eight years, for
in a few days he and Friday sailed for England in the ship. Some of the mutineers were left
on the island, and were afterwards joined by the Spaniard and his comrades, for whom Robinson
left a letter.

Robinson did not forget, when he left, to take with him the money and gold bars he had got
from the wreck of the Spanish ship, and he took also, as a memento, the goatskin coat and the
great hairy hat. But the Captain was able before the ship sailed to give him proper clothing,
the wearing of which at first put him to dreadful discomfort.

The voyage was a long one, but they sighted the English coast at last.

It was thirty-five years since Robinson had set foot in England. And that morning, when at
last, after the weary years of exile, he again saw his native land, he laid his head down on
his arms and cried like a child.

And, may be, you too some day may know the joy of coming home, out of the land of bondage.
In the same country lived a beautiful lady called Dorigen. And the knight loved the lady.

For years Arviragus did not know whether she loved him or not. She was a great lady and very
fair, and he was afraid to ask her. But she knew that he loved her, for when he rode past her
window on his way to the wars, she could see her colors streaming from his helmet. At first
she did not think much of this, for many knights fought for love of her; but as she heard of
new and greater deeds that this noble knight did year by year, she began to care for him a
great deal. When she thought of his goodness and of the honor in which he held her, she knew
that there was no one else that she could love as she loved Arviragus. And when Arviragus knew
that she loved him and was willing to be his wife, his heart was full of joy. So greatly did
he wish to make Dorigen happy with him, that he said to her that he would obey her and do what
she wished as gladly all his life as he had done while he was trying to win her love. To this
she replied:

"Sir, since in thy great gentleness thou givest me so high a place, I pray to God that there
may never be strife between us two by any fault of mine. Sir, I will be thy true and humble
wife until I die!"

Then Arviragus took his bride home with him to his castle by the sea. He honored Dorigen as
much as he had done before his marriage, and tried to fulfil her wishes in everything. Dorigen
was just as eager to please Arviragus as he was to please her, and they were happy together
in all their work and play.

Arviragus stayed quietly at home for a year, but after that he grew restless. He felt that
no true knight had a right to live on quietly at home, with nothing to do except to order his
castle and to hunt. So he sailed away to England that he might win honor and renown in the
wars there.

Dorigen stood by the castle and watched his sails disappear in the north. Poor Dorigen! her
husband was gone, and she did not know if he would ever come back to her. For weeks she wept
and mourned. At night she could not rest, and by day she would not eat. All the things that
she had cared most to do were now dull and worthless to her because Arviragus was away.

Her friends saw her sorrow, and tried to comfort her in every way they could. When they found
she would not be comforted, they spoke harshly to her, and told her that it was very wrong
of her to kill herself with sorrow, when Arviragus hoped to come home again strong and famous.
Then they began to comfort her again, and to try to make her forget her sadness.

After a long time Dorigen's sorrow began to grow quieter. She could not have lived if she had
always felt her grief as deeply as she did at first. Indeed, as it was, this sorrow would have
broken her heart, if letters had not come from Arviragus. They brought her tidings of his doings,
and of the glory he had won. But what comforted her most was that they told her that he would
soon return.

When Dorigen's friends saw that she was less hopeless, they begged her to come and roam with
them to drive away the last of her dark fears. This she did. Often she walked with them by
the edge of the cliffs on which her castle stood. But there she saw the white ships and the
brown barges sailing, one north, another south, to the havens for which they were bound. Then
she would turn away from her friends and say to herself:

"Alas! of all the ships I see, is there never one that will bring my lord home? Then should
I need no comfort. My heart would be cured of this bitter smart."

At times as she sat and thought, she leaned down and looked over the brink of the cliffs. But,
when she saw the grisly, black rocks, her very heart trembled within her. Then she would sink
down on the grass and wail:

"O God, men say Thou hast made nothing in vain, but, Lord, why hast Thou made these black,
grisly rocks? No man nor beast is helped by them in all the world. Rocks have destroyed a hundred
thousand men, and which of all Thy works is so fair as man? No doubt wise men will say, 'All
is for the best.' But, oh Thou God, who makest the winds to blow, keep Thou my lord! And--would
to God that these black rocks were sunk in the deep for his sake! They slay my heart with fear."

Dorigen's friends saw that the sea brought back her sorrow. They led her then by rivers and
springs, and took her to every lovely place they knew, from which there was no glimpse of the sea.

In the valley, to landward of the castle, lay many beautiful gardens. One day in May, when
the soft showers of spring had painted in brightest colors the leaves and flowers, they spent
the whole day in the fairest of these gardens. They had games there, and they dined under a
spreading tree. The breath of the fresh green leaves and the sweet scent of the flowers blew
round them.

After dinner they began to dance and sing--every one except Dorigen. She had no heart to sing,
and she would not dance because, of all who joined in the dance, not one was Arviragus. But,
though she would not dance, she watched her friends and sometimes forgot her sorrow for a little.

Among the dancers there was a young squire named Aurelius. He was much beloved because he was
young, and strong, and handsome. Men thought him wise and good, but he was not always wise
and good.

When the dancing was over, Aurelius came up to Dorigen and asked her to give him a beautiful
jewel that she wore on her breast. He said to her, "Madam, of what use is thy jewel to thee
when thou wearest it on thy bosom? Give it to me, and I will share with thee the price of it."

Dorigen turned and gazed at him.

"Is this what thou dost wish? I knew not what thou didst mean when thou didst look at me, but
now I know. Listen, this is all I have to say to thee. I shall never part with my jewel, not
though I were in rags and without food."

Then she remembered how Arviragus had loved to see her wear her jewel, as she always did, on
a chain of gold that he had given to her on her wedding day. She thought of the sea that separated
him from her, and of the cruel black rocks, and said in play:

"Aurelius, I will freely give thee my jewel when thou dost remove every rock on the shore from
end to end of Brittany."

Then her anger at the selfishness of Aurelius rose again, and she bade him begone.

"Madam," he said, "it is impossible to move the rocks."

With that word he turned away, and went home to his own house. There his brother Austin found
him in a trance, for Aurelius wished Dorigen's jewel more than he wished anything else on earth,
and the thought that he could not get it made him so sad that he became dazed. Austin carried
him to bed, and tried to soothe him in his grief and vexation.

The jewel that Aurelius wished to get from Dorigen was no common one. It had been given to
her at her birth. It was clear as crystal, but far more rare, and it shone in the daylight
like the sun. When Dorigen was a little child her mother told her of this wonderful stone.
She told her that it would bring her joy and peace and the love of all who were good and true,
if she kept it bright and pure; but that, if she ever gave it away, she would lose her youth
and her beauty, and would be hidden away from all her friends and left alone in the world.

Dorigen shuddered at the thought of parting with her jewel. She did not know how her mother's
words could come to pass, if she did give it away, nor by what magic power she could be so
lost that no one who loved her could find her again. But she was sure that what her mother
had said must be true.

And that was why Dorigen was so angry with Aurelius. She knew that he must have heard what
sorrow she would suffer if she gave him her jewel, for all the court knew the story of the
wonderful stone.

Not long after this, Arviragus came home. He had won more honor than before, and was now the
very flower of chivalry. I cannot tell you how great the joy was, with which he greeted Dorigen,
nor how soon she forgot her fears of the sea and the grisly rocks.

For two years, while they lived a joyful life together, Aurelius lay in bed unable to rise,
with no one to take care of him except his brother Austin. This brother mourned over Aurelius
in secret and wept at his unhappy fate, till one day he remembered a book of magic that he
had seen when he was a student in Orleans. In that book he had read of the strange ways in
which Magicians can make things seem what they are not. His heart leapt up. He said to himself,
"My brother shall be cured. I am sure I have heard of stranger things than that the rocks should
seem to vanish. Once I heard of a Magician who made every one believe that a great brown barge
was rowing up and down a sheet of water inside the hall of a castle! If he could do that, then
surely we shall be able to find a Magician who will make those black rocks seem to vanish.
Then Dorigen will have to keep her promise and give Aurelius her wonderful jewel."

Austin then ran to his brother's room and told him about the book of magic at Orleans. No sooner
had Aurelius heard him than he leapt out of bed. In less time than one would think possible
he was ready to start on the long ride to Orleans.

When they came near the city they met a Magician. They knew him to be a Magician because of
the strange look in his eyes, and because of his curious dress. When they rode up to him he
bowed before them and wished them "Good day." Then he began to tell them why they had come
to Orleans. Aurelius wondered how it was that this stranger knew so much about him and his
errand. He thought he must be a very wise man indeed, and leaping from his horse in surprise
and joy, he went home with the Magician to his house. His brother went too.

The house was the finest that Aurelius had ever seen. When he entered the study he looked in
wonder at the rows of books that lined the walls, and at the quaint pictures and the strange
old armor.

In one corner a curious light burned. It was not like the light of a lamp or of a candle, but
cold and blue. Above it hung a map of the stars, and other strange drawings. Below the light
stood a table, and on it lay a great book which was chained to the wall.

Austin saw Aurelius look at this book. He whispered to him, "It is the same book from which
I read long ago."

This corner with its blue light made Aurelius frightened. A shudder passed over him when he
saw the Magician cross over into the circle of the light and wave his wand.

In a moment Aurelius forgot all about the Magician and his own fear, for he and his brother
saw before them the edge of a forest with a park stretching from the trees far, far away.

The sun shone, and the branches waved a little in the breeze. In the park the brothers saw
herds of deer. Beautiful animals they were, with the highest antlers deer ever had. At first
the deer fed in peace and safety. Then archers, clad in green, came to the edge of the forest.
They glided out and in among the trees to see where they could best take aim with their arrows.
When the archers had let their arrows fly, hounds broke out from behind them, and soon there
was not one living deer of all the herd left in sight.

In a moment a calm river flowed where the park had been. In the shallow water at the river's
edge tall herons stood. They watched for the little fishes that swam in the river. Again, into
this quiet place a hunter came. He had no arrows. He had no dogs. But on his wrist he had an
iron bracelet to which one end of a chain was fastened. The other end of the chain was round
a hawk's foot, and the hawk sat on his master's wrist. When the hunter came near the river
he loosed the chain from the bird's foot. The hawk flew over the river and swooped down among
the herons. In a moment they had all vanished.

Aurelius had scarcely time to sigh, when the river itself was gone, and a plain lay where it
had been. There he saw the knights of King Arthur's Table jousting. Beautiful ladies sat and
watched the struggle, and one more fair than all held the prizes the knights might win.

Then the figures of the knights began to grow dim and uncertain. The plain changed into a great
hall where knights and ladies danced. Everything was bright and sparkling. Mirrors lined the
walls, and their cut edges flashed back the light that fell on them. As Aurelius watched the
dance, he started. There, before him, more beautiful than ever, was Dorigen. His heart gave
a great leap, for, as he watched her, he saw that she no longer wore her jewel. In his delight
he swayed to the music of the dance. Clap! clap! went the Magician's hands, and all was gone.

The great room that had seemed so splendid to Aurelius when he entered it, looked cold and
plain now when he returned to it from fairyland.

The Magician called his servant and asked for supper. Then he led the brothers away and feasted
them royally.

After supper the three men began to talk about what the Magician should get from Aurelius if
he made the rocks vanish. The Magician said, "I cannot take less than a thousand pounds, and
I am not sure if I can do it for that!" Aurelius was too delighted to bargain about what the
cost would be. He said gladly: "What is a thousand pounds? I would give thee the whole round
world, if I were lord of it. The bargain is made. Thou shalt be paid in full. But do not delay.
Let us start to-morrow morning without fail."

"Thou mayest count on me to-morrow," said the Magician.

They went to bed, and Aurelius slept soundly and well; because of the hope he had that the
Magician would make the rocks vanish.

Next morning they rose early. It was Christmas time, and the air was cold and frosty as they
rode away. The very sunlight was pale, and the trees were bare. When they reached home the
neighbors gathered round and wished them a Merry Christmas. "Noel, Noel," they said, but they
would not have done so had they known what sorrow the riders brought to their beautiful lady
Dorigen.

For many days the Magician worked with his maps and figures. Aurelius waited impatiently. There
was nothing for him to do except to make the Magician as comfortable as he could, and to show
him as much kindness as possible.

One morning Aurelius looked from his window towards the sea. He saw the Magician standing on
the shore. As Aurelius gazed out to sea, the rocks vanished from north to south. His heart
stood still. Then he rushed out and away to the edge of the cliffs for fear some rocks might
still lie close to the land. But no, there was not one.

He went to meet the Magician and fell at his feet with the words, "Thanks to thee, my lord,
thanks to thee, my cares are gone!"

After he had thanked the Wise Man, he hurried away to meet Dorigen. When he saw her he trembled.
She was so pure and beautiful. His heart sank. Then he looked out to sea and saw the smooth
surface of the water, and he grew selfish again.

Dorigen came quietly on. She had not noticed that the rocks had vanished, for Arviragus was
safe on land, and she did not fear the sea any more. She had almost forgotten Aurelius and
his selfish, greedy words. It was more than two years since she had seen him, and she had not
heard of him since then.

She started back when he greeted her. Before she had time to speak he said, "My lady, give
me thy jewel."

He saw Dorigen's face grow cold and angry, and said, "Think well lest thou break thy word,
for, madam, thou knowest well what thou didst say. In yonder garden in the month of May thou
didst promise to give me thy jewel when I should move the rocks. I speak to save thine honor.
I have done as thou didst command me. Go thou and see if thou wilt, but well I know the rocks
are vanished."

He left her then. She stood still, white and sick. She had never dreamt that such a trap as
this could close on her.

"Alas," she said, "that such a thing could happen! I never thought a thing so strange and unheard-of
could come to pass!"

Home she went in sadness and dismay. She was so weak with fear that she could scarcely walk.
She had to suffer her sorrow alone for three days, for Arviragus was away, and she would tell
no one but him. Her ladies saw her distress, but they could not comfort her. To herself she
moaned, "Alas, O Fortune, I lay the blame on thee; thou hast so bound me in thy chain, that
I see no help nor escape save only in death."

Arviragus came home on the third day after the rocks had vanished. He came at night, so he
noticed nothing strange about the shore. Though every one was talking of the curious thing
that had happened, no one liked to tell him. They knew he would not like to hear of it. He
would think his country was bewitched.

Arviragus looked for Dorigen in the hall. When he could not see her there, he hurried to her
room, to make sure that she was safe and well. As he sprang up the broad staircase, the sheath
of his sword and the spurs at his heels clanked harshly on the stone steps.

Dorigen heard him, but, instead of going to meet him, she buried her head deeper in her cushions
and wept. Arviragus crossed the room to where she sat, and knelt before her. He drew her hands
from her eyes and said, "Dorigen, what is it? Why dost thou weep like this, my beloved?"

For a little time Dorigen's tears only fell the faster, then she said brokenly: "Alas, that
ever I was born! I have said it! Arviragus! I have promised!"

"What hast thou promised, my wife?"

Then Dorigen told Arviragus all that had happened; told him that she had promised to give her
jewel to Aurelius when he would take all the rocks away.

Arviragus leapt up and went to the window. The moon had burst through a cloud, and everything
was bright and clear. He looked away north, as Dorigen had so often looked to watch for his
coming. In the moonlight Arviragus saw the sea lie smooth and cold. His eyes swept the skyline.
It seemed as as if all the rocks had sunk into his heart, it was so heavy.

He turned towards Dorigen, and saw how great was her sorrow.

Then he said very gently: "Is there aught else than this, that thou shouldst weep, Dorigen?"

"Nay, nay, this is indeed too much already," she sighed.

"Dear wife," he said, "something as wonderful as the sinking of the rocks may happen to save
us yet. God grant it! But whether or not, thou must keep thy troth. I had rather that my great
love for thee caused me to die, than that thou shouldest break thy promise. Truth is the highest
thing that man may keep."

Then his courage broke down, and he began to sob and weep along with Dorigen.

Next morning he was strong and brave again. He said to Dorigen, "I will bear up under this
great sorrow."

He bade her farewell, and she set out with only a maid and a squire to follow her.

Arviragus could not bear to see Dorigen as she went down from the castle, so he hid himself
in an inner room. But some one saw her go out. It was Aurelius. For three days he had watched
the castle gate to see what she did, and where she went. He came forward and said, "Whither
goest thou?"

Dorigen was almost mad with misery, but she said bravely, "To thee, to keep my troth, and give
my jewel to thee, as my husband bids me. Alas! alas!"

Aurelius was full of wonder when he heard this. He began to be sorry for Dorigen, and for Arviragus
the worthy knight, who would rather lose his wife than have her break her word. He could be
cruel no longer.

"Madam," he said, "say to thy lord Arviragus that since I see his great honor and thy sad distress,
I had rather bear my own sorrow than drive thee away from him and all thy friends. I give thee
back thy promise. I shall never trouble thee more. Farewell, farewell! thou truest woman and
best that I have ever seen."

Down on her knees, on the roadway, fell Dorigen to thank Aurelius. Her blessing followed him
as he turned and left her.

But how can I tell of Dorigen's return? She seemed to be treading on air. When she reached
the room where her husband sat with his head sunk on his arms, she paused. She had not known
the greatness of his love till then. He looked old and forlorn after the night of sorrow.

She spoke, and he raised his eyes to gaze on her, as if she had been a lady in a dream. But
when she told him all, when he knew that she was there herself, and for always, he could not
speak for joy.

Aurelius wished he had never been born when he thought of the thousand pounds of pure gold
that he owed to the Magician.

He said to himself, "What shall I do? I am undone! I must sell my house and be a beggar. I
will not stay here and make my friends ashamed of me, unless I can get the Magician to give
me time. I will ask him to let me pay him part of my debt year by year till all is paid. If
he will, my gratitude will know no bounds, and I will pay him every penny I owe."

With a sore heart he went to his coffer and took out five hundred pounds of gold. These he
took to the Wise Man, and begged him to grant him time to pay the rest.

"Master," said he, "I can say truly, I never yet failed to keep a promise. My debt shall be
paid to thee, even if I go begging in rags. But if thou wilt be so gracious as to allow me
two years, or three, in which to pay the, rest, I will rejoice. If not, I must sell my house;
there is no other way."

When the Magician heard this he said, "Have not I kept my promise to thee?"

"Yes, certainly, well and truly!"

"Hast thou not thy jewel?"

"No, no," said Aurelius, and sighed deeply.

"Tell me, if thou mayest, what is the cause of this?"

"Arviragus in his honor had rather die in sorrow and distress than that his wife should break
her word. Dorigen would rather die than lose her husband and wander alone on the earth. She
did not mean to give me her promise. She thought the rocks would never move. I pitied them
so much that I gave her back her promise as freely as she brought her jewel to me. That is
the whole story!"

The Magician answered, "Dear brother, you have each behaved nobly. Thou art a squire, he is
a knight, but by God's grace I can do a noble deed as well as another. Sir, thou art free from
thy debt to me, as free as if thou hadst this moment crept out of the ground, and hadst never
known me till now. For, sir, I will not take a penny from thee for all my skill, nor for all
my work. It is enough! Farewell! Good day to thee!"

Whereupon the Magician bowed once and again, mounted his horse, and rode away.

Dorigen and Arviragus were walking on the cliffs as the Magician parted from Aurelius. They
noticed the two men, and when the horseman rode away they saw a strange white mist rise from
the sea and follow the rider.

Dorigen caught her husband's arm, for there, there, out at sea, and close by the cliffs, were
the rocks, grisly and black and fearsome as before. The sunlight fell on her jewel, and it
shone more brightly than of old, nor did its light ever grow dim in all the happy years that
followed.

II

EMELIA

Emelia the Radiant lived in a great castle in Athens.

Hippolyta, Emelia's sister, had once been queen of the Warrior Women, and had led her armies
to battle. But Emelia had never fought in these battles. When she was still a child, Duke Theseus
of Athens had fought with Hippolyta and conquered her. Instead of sending his royal captive
to prison, Theseus married her, and took her home to Athens with him. When he took her there,
he took Emelia with her. He was very kind to them both, and the castle in Athens was a happy
home for Hippolyta and her little sister.

As Emelia grew up she became most beautiful. She was more graceful than a lily on its stem,
and the flush on her cheeks was more delicate than the hue of the rose-petals in the old Greek
castle garden. Her golden hair fell in heavy masses round her face, and lay in a great plait
down her back. It caught all the light that fell on it, and sent it out again to make glad
the hearts of those who looked on her. So men called her Emelia the Radiant, and all who met
her smiled for joy at the sight of so beautiful a maid.

One May morning Emelia went into the castle garden to bathe her face in the early dew. Everything
was dim and gray in the twilight. She looked up at the great dungeon tower which overshadowed
the garden, and thought of the two young princes who were prisoners there. Duke Theseus had
brought them from Thebes. He was very proud of them, and would not give them up, although the
people of their land offered to give him gold and jewels for their ransom. The princes were
cousins, and were the last of the royal line of Thebes. In the stillness Emelia murmured their
names to herself, "Palamon and Arcite, Palamon and Arcite. How miserable they must be in their
narrow cell!" she thought. Then she sighed that life should be so sad for them while it was
so bright for her!

As she roamed up and down and gathered roses white and red to make a garland for her hair,
the sun broke through the mist and shone into the garden. Once more she raised her eyes to
the tower. This time she did not look at it, but at the sunlit clouds beyond. The light from
the east fell on her. Her hair shone like gold, and her face was radiant with happiness.

Palamon at that moment came to the narrow iron-barred window through which alone he and his
cousin could see the sky and the fields and the city. He saw the morning light fall on the
fair buildings of Athens, and on the plains and hills beyond. Then a glad song which burst
from Emelia's happy heart floated up to him. He looked down. Before him stood the maiden bathed
in sunlight.

She seemed to him the very Spirit of Beauty. He thought of all the joy and life and freedom
that he could never have. He started back from the window and cried aloud.

His cousin Arcite sprang from his couch and said, "My cousin, what aileth thee? I pray thee
that thou bear our imprisonment in patience. Sad it is in truth, but we must abide it. We can
do nought else."

But Palamon said: "Thou art mistaken. Prison walls drew not that cry from me. An arrow hath
entered my heart through mine eye, and I am wounded. What life can give is bound up for me
in the fairness of a maiden who roams in yonder garden. Be she Spirit or woman I know not!
But this I know, was never woman nor Spirit half so fair before."

"Spirit of Beauty," he cried, "if thou choosest to take the form of a radiant woman here before
me in this garden, pity my wretchedness! Save us from this prison, and if that may not be,
have pity on our country and help our fallen friends."

Arcite pressed forward and leant over Palamon's shoulder. The window was only a narrow slit,
and the wall through which it was cut was thick, so it was not easy for Arcite to see into
the garden. At last he caught a glimpse of Emelia.

"Oh, how lovely she is!" he said. "I shall die of my wish to serve her. Most beautiful of maidens
she is, truly."

When Palamon heard this, he turned on Arcite, looked coldly at him and asked, "Sayest thou
so in earnest or in jest?"

"Nay, truly in earnest, my cousin; I have little will to jest!"

Palamon looked fiercely at him and said, "Little honor to thee then! Hast thou forgotten thine
oath of truest brotherhood to me, and mine to thee? Hast thou forgotten thy promise to help
me in all I do? How, then, canst thou dream of claiming to love my lady? This thou shalt not
do, false Arcite! I loved her first, and told thee, and thou must help me to win her if ever
we escape. Thine honor demands this of thee. Otherwise thou art no true knight."

But Arcite drew himself up scornfully and said, "Rather it is thou that art false! A moment
ago thou didst not know whether she were maiden or Spirit! I loved her first for what she is,
and told thee as my brother! But even if thou hadst loved her first, could I, because of that,
refuse to love the fairest of maidens? Besides, why should we strive? Thou knowest too well
that thou shalt never win her smile, nor yet shall I! These prison walls so thick and black
leave no hope for us. We fight as did the fabled dogs for the bone. They fought all day, yet
neither won. There came a kite while they raged, and carried off the bone. Love thou the maid
if thou wilt. I shall love her till I die."

The prison had been narrow and bare and cold before, but now it seemed ten times more dismal.
The world from which it shut them in was so much more sweet because of the maiden who dwelt
there, and the friendship for each other which had cheered them through many evil days was broken.

But Emelia the Radiant sang her gay songs and stepped lightly among the flowers, with never
another thought of the weary eyes that watched her.

One day the greatest friend that Duke Theseus of Athens had, came to see him. This friend had
known Arcite in Thebes, and had loved the handsome boy. He begged Theseus to forgive him, and
to let him go free. Theseus was glad to find something he could do to please his dear friend,
so one morning he took him with him to the prison where Palamon and Arcite were. The attendants
could scarcely follow, for the royal robes filled all the dingy little space! A streak of light
from the window fell on the Duke's mantle and his jewels. They looked strangely bright in that
dark room beside the faded clothes of the two young prisoners.

Arcite and the friend of Theseus greeted each other joyously, and the heart of Arcite beat
wildly with hope, but when he heard the words of Theseus the Duke it sank like lead.

"Arcite," said he, "by the desire of my friend, I grant to thee thy freedom. I grant it on
one condition only. Thou must wander away far beyond my kingdom. If ever thou art seen for
one moment on any furthest corner of my land, that moment shall be thy last. By the sword thou
shalt die."

Homeward to Thebes sped Arcite with a sad heart.

"Woe is me for the day that I was born!" he moaned; "woe is me that ever I knew the friend
of Theseus! Had he not known me, I might even now be gazing on the maiden I serve, from the
window in the Duke's tower. Ah, Palamon, thou art the victor now! Day by day thou gazest on
her, and kind fortune may grant to thee thy freedom and her favor while I am banished for ever!
Ah, why do we complain against our fortune? We know that we seek happiness, but know not the
road thither! Think how I dreamt and longed for freedom, and thought that if I were only out
of prison my joy would be perfect. Behold, my freedom is my banishment, and my hope my undoing!"

As for Palamon, when he saw that Arcite was gone, he made the great tower walls re-echo with
his howls of misery. The very fetters on his ankles were wet with his salt tears.

"Alas," he groaned, "Arcite, my cousin, thou hast borne off the prize in this strife of ours!
Thou walkest now at liberty in Thebes. Little thou thinkest of me and of my sorrow! Strong
thou art, and wise. Doubtless thou art even now gathering together the people of Thebes to
invade this land and win the sister of the Duke for thy wife, while I die here in this prison
like a caged lion. The prison walls heed my weeping and my wailing not at all."

He could not even rejoice in the sight of Emelia when she walked in the garden, so fearful
was he lest Arcite should win her.

Meanwhile Arcite passed his days in Thebes in grief. He wandered about alone, and wailed and
made moan to himself. He cared not to eat, and sleep forsook him. His spirits were so feeble
that the sound of music brought fresh tears to his eyes. He grew gaunt and thin, and his voice
was hollow with sadness.

At last, when he was nearly dazed with sorrow, he dreamt one night that a beautiful winged
boy with golden curls stood before him. "Go thou to Athens," said the boy; "the end of all
thy sorrow awaits thee there!"

Arcite started up wide awake and said, "I will to Athens, to my lady. It were good even to
die in her presence."

He caught up a mirror. He had not cared to look in one for many months, but now that he meant
to return to his lady, he wished to see if he looked strong and young as ever. At first he
was shocked to see how great a change had passed over his face. Then he thought, "If I do not
say who I am, I may live unknown in Athens for years. Then I shall see my lady day by day."

Quickly he called to him a squire, and told him all his will, and bound him to keep his name
a secret and to answer no questions about himself or his master. Then Arcite sent his squire
to find clothes such as the laborers in Athens wore. When he returned, Arcite and he put on
the clothes and set out by the straight road to Athens.

In Athens no one took any notice of the two poor men.

Before they came to the castle the squire left his master and found a house to live in, where
he could do Arcite's bidding at any time. But Arcite hurried on to the courtyard gate. There
he waited till the master of the servants who waited on Emelia came out. Then he said to him,
"Take me, I pray thee, into thy service. Drudge I will and draw water, yea, and in all thou
dost command I will obey."

The master of the servants asked Arcite what was his name. "Philostrate, my lord," said Arcite,
and as "Philostrate" he entered that part of the castle where Emelia's home was.

He could hew wood and carry water well, but he was not long left to do such rough work. The
master of the house saw that whatever he trusted to Philostrate's care was rightly done, so
he gave him less humble work to do, and made him a page in the house of Emelia. The lords and
ladies of the castle began to notice what a gentle and kind page this Philostrate was. They
spoke to Theseus about him, and said that he deserved to have a higher place that he might
show his goodness and courage in knightly deeds. To please them, Theseus made him one of his
own squires.

Seven years passed away, and Palamon was still in prison. This year, however, in the May-time,
a friend of his, who heard where he was, helped him to escape. During the short night he fled
as fast as he could, but when the early dawn began to break he strode tremblingly to a grove
of trees, that he might hide there all day. When the darkness fell once more he meant to go
on again to Thebes, there to gather his old armies to make war on Theseus. He wished either
to win Emelia or to die. He cared little for his life if he might not spend it with her.

As Palamon lay beside a bush in the grove, he watched the sunbeams drying up the dew drops
on the leaves and flowers near him, and listened to the joyous song of a lark that poured forth
its welcome to the morning.

The same lark that Palamon heard awakened Arcite. He was now the chief knight in the Duke's
house, and served him with honor in peace and war. He sprang up and looked out on the fresh
green fields. Everything called to him to come out. He loosed his horse from the stall and
galloped over hill and dale. He came to the edge of a grove, and tied up his steed to a tree.
Then he wandered down a woodland path to gather honeysuckle and hawthorn to weave a garland
for himself. Little he thought of the snare into which he was walking. As he roamed he sang--

  "O May, of every month the queen,
  With thy sweet flowers and forests green,
  Right welcome be thou, fair fresh May."

The grove was the one in which Palamon lay beside a pool of water. When he heard the song of
Arcite, cold fear took hold on him. He did not know that it was Arcite who sang, but he knew
that the horse must belong to a knight of the court, and he crouched down to the ground lest
he should be seen and taken back to prison.

Soon Arcite's joyous mood passed away, and he grew sorrowful. He sighed and threw himself down
not far from the spot where Palamon lay.

"Alas, alas!" said Arcite, "for the royal blood of Thebes! Alas that I should humbly serve
my mortal enemy! Alas that I dare not claim my noble name, but must be known, forsooth, as
Philostrate, a name worth not a straw! Of all our princely house not one is left save only
me and Palamon, whom Theseus slays in prison. Even I, free though I am, am helpless to win
Emelia. What am I to her but an humble squire?"

Palamon was so angry when he heard this, that he forgot his own danger. He started out from
his hiding-place and faced Arcite.

"False Arcite," he cried, "now art thou caught indeed! Thou hast deceived Duke Theseus and
hast falsely changed thy name, hast thou? Then surely I or thou must die. I will suffer no
man to love my lady, save myself alone. For I am Palamon, thy mortal foe. I have no weapon
in this place, for only last night did I escape from prison. Yet I fear thee not. Thou shalt
die, or thou shalt cease to love my lady. Choose as thou wilt!"

Then Arcite rose up in his wrath and drew his sword. He said, "Were it not that thou art ill
and mad with grief, and that thou hast no weapon here, thou shouldest never step from where
thou standest. I deny the bond thou claimest! Fool! how can I help thee to win the lady I fain
would wed myself? But because thou art a worthy knight and a gentle, and art ready to fight
for thy lady, accept my promise. To-morrow I will not fail to wait for thee here without the
knowledge of any other. Also I will bring armor and weapons for thee and me, and thou shalt
choose of them what thou wilt, ere I arm myself! Food and drink will I bring to thee this night
into the grove. If so be that thou slay me here to-morrow, then indeed thou mayest win thy
lady if thou canst!"

Then Palamon answered, "Let it be so."

Next morning Arcite rode to the wood alone. He met Palamon on the woodland path where the flowers
he had gathered the day before lay withered on the ground. No word nor greeting passed between
them, but each helped to arm the other in silence. As the buckles were tightened and the armor
slipped into its place, the color came and went in the faces of the two princes. They deemed
that this would be the last of all fights to one of them.

When they were ready they fenced together for a little, and then the real fight began. So fierce
was it that the men seemed like wild animals in their rage. Palamon sprang at Arcite like a
strong lion, and Arcite glanced aside and darted at him again like a cruel tiger. In the midst
of this they heard a sound of the galloping of horses that brought the royal hunters to the
spot. In a moment the sword of Theseus flashed between the fighters, and his voice thundered
out, "Ho! no more, on pain of death. Who are ye who dare to fight here alone, with none to
see justice done?"

The princes turned and saw Theseus, Duke of Athens. Behind him rode Hippolyta with her sister,
Emelia the Radiant, and many knights and ladies.

Palamon answered the Duke's question swiftly, before Arcite had time to speak. "Sire, what
need of words? Both of us deserve death. Two wretches are we, burdened with our lives. As thou
art a just judge, give to us neither mercy nor refuge, but slay us both. Thou knowrest not
that this knight, Philostrate, is thy mortal foe, whom thou hast banished. He is Arcite, who
hath deceived thee for that he loveth Emelia. And I too love her. I too am thy mortal foe,
for I am Palamon, and I have broken from my prison. Slay us then, here before fair Emelia."

"That is easily granted," said Theseus. "Ye judge yourselves. Ye shall die."

Then the queen began to weep, and Emelia too. They were sad to think that these two princes
should die so young, and all for the service they wished to do to the queen's sister.

The other ladies of the court begged the Duke to forgive the fighters. "Have mercy, sire,"
they urged, "on us women, and save the princes!"

At first Theseus was too angry to listen to them, but soon he thought that he would have done
as the princes had done, if he had been in their place, so he said, "Arcite and Palamon, ye
could both have lived in peace and safety in Thebes, yet love has brought you here to Athens
into my power, who am your deadly foe. Here then for the sake of Hippolyta, my queen, and of
Emelia the Radiant, our dear sister, I forgive you both. Promise never to make war on my land,
but to yield me your friendship evermore." Joyfully the princes promised this, and thanked
the Duke for his grace.

Then Theseus said, "Both of you are noble. Either might wed Emelia the Radiant, but she cannot
wed you both. Therefore I appoint a tournament in this place a year hence. Come here then,
ye Princes of Thebes, each of you, with a hundred knights of the bravest, and that one of you,
who shall slay or capture the other, he shall wed Emelia."

Whose face could be brighter than was Palamon's when he heard those words, and who could step
more lightly than did Arcite? Every one thanked the Duke for his kindness to the princes, while
they rode off to Thebes with high hopes and light hearts.

When the day of the tournament came, great buildings stood in a circle on the plain beside
the grove. Within them stretched an immense arena in which the knights must fight. Great marble
gates opened on to the space at either side.

Palamon and Arcite found it easy to bring a hundred knights to Athens. So splendid were the
preparations for the tournament that every one was eager to fight in it.

Emelia alone was sad as the day of the fighting came nearer. Her maidens heard her say, "Oh
that I might not wed at all! I love the free life of the woods. I love to hunt, and to ride,
and to roam. Why cannot Palamon and Arcite love each other as they used to do long ago, and
leave me free?"

On the morning of the tournament Duke Theseus and his queen sat with Emelia on a high seat
overlooking the lists. When the trumpet sounded, Arcite and his knights rode in through the
western gate. His red banner shone bright against the white marble pillars. At the same moment
Palamon entered from the east, and his white banner floated out against the blue sky.

Soon the heralds ceased galloping up and down, and the whole space was left to the warriors.

The trumpets sounded "Advance," and the fray began. Through the bright sunshine they fought,
advancing here, and beaten back there, till at last Palamon was hurled from his horse and taken
prisoner.

The trumpets sounded, and all stood still while Theseus called out, "Ho! no more. All is over.
Arcite of Thebes khall wed Emelia." Then the people shouted till it seemed that the great marble
gates would fall.

In the eagerness of the fight Emelia had begun to like the warriors who fought for her, and
her liking grew ever stronger as they showed their worth. When Arcite rode towards her with
glowing face she was proud of him, and leant forward to welcome him gladly.

But as he galloped, his horse started aside and he was thrown to the ground. He was too much
hurt to rise. So he was lifted by his knights and carried to the palace. There he was cared
for in every way, but nothing could save him.

Before he died, he called for Emelia and Palamon.

"No words can tell the sorrow I bear because I must leave thee, my lady! Alas, death tears
me from thee! Farewell, my wife! farewell, my Emelia! Ah, take me softly in thine arms, and
listen while I speak! For years I have had strife with my dear cousin Palamon. Yet now I say
to thee, in all this world I never have met with one so worthy to be loved as Palamon, that
hath served thee, and will serve thee, his life long. Ah, if ever thou dost wed, let it be
Palamon!"

His voice began to fail. "Emelia!" he said, and died.

Emelia mourned sadly for her valiant knight. As for Palamon, all his old love for Arcite came
back, and he wept for him as bitterly as he had bewailed his own sorrow in the dungeon.

When all the Greeks had ceased to mourn for Arcite, Palamon still grieved for the death of
his friend, and for the strife that had been between them.

After two years Theseus sent one day for Palamon and Emelia. Palamon came to the court in his
black robes of mourning; but Emelia was dressed in white, as she had been on the May morning
in the garden years before. She had ceased to mourn for Arcite, and was Emelia the Radiant
once more.

Palamon caught his breath. He had not seen her since they parted after Arcite's death.

Duke Theseus said, "Sister, I desire thee now to take the noble knight Palamon to be thy husband.
Have pity on his long service, and accept him."

Then he said to Palamon, "It will not need much speech to gain thy consent! Come, take thy
lady by the hand."

Then, in the presence of all the court, they were wed. When all was over, Emelia fled from
the noise and tumult of the hall, and beckoned to Palamon to follow. Out at the great hall
doors she led him, and down the pathway to the garden beneath the tower. When he joined her,
she pointed to the dungeon window, and told him of the day when she had looked at the prison
in the morning mist, and murmured to herself the names of the captive princes, "Palamon and
Arcite, Palamon and Arcite."

But it was not till many years of joyous life had passed over their home that Palamon told
Emelia that he had seen her first on that very morning when she had thought so sadly of his misery.

III

GRISELDA

Once upon a time there lived a fair young girl whose name was Griselda. Her home was in an
Italian village. There she dwelt in a lowly cottage with her father, Janicola. He was too old
and weak to work for her, or even for himself.

All round the village lay the fruitful fields and vineyards of the plain, and on the slopes
near grew olive-trees laden with fruit. Far in the distance rose the snow-capped mountains
of the North.

Even in so rich a land it was not easy for this young Griselda to make her father's life as
pleasant as she would have wished it to be. She lived plainly and barely. She was busy all
day long. Now she was herding a few sheep on the broken ground near the village, and spinning
as she watched her flock. Again she fetched the water from the well or gathered roots and herbs
from which to make drugs.

Griselda was not unhappy though her life was hard, because she was so glad that she could serve
her father and show her love to him, forgetting about herself and her own wishes.

One day as she sat watching her sheep her eyes fell on the white towers of a castle that stood
not far from the village where she lived. It was the castle of the Marquis Walter, who was
lord of all that land. Griselda looked kindly at the white towers. She thought that their master
was the best and greatest man in the world. She knew that he was kind also, and courteous.
When she saw him ride towards her, her face lighted up, and she rose to courtesy to him. She
hoped he would draw up his horse beside her, and greet her, and ask for her father Janicola.

This morning, as she looked at the castle, she saw a company of men hurrying along the road
that led to its gate. Farmers were there in dull and homely clothes, and knights in armor that
flashed back the sunlight, and lords in gay colors that glanced and gleamed among the olive-trees
under the blue Italian sky.

Griselda knew why they were going to Lord Walter, and she wondered what they would do and say
when they reached him. She could not go after them, for her sheep would have wandered away
if she had left them.

When the men that Griselda had watched reached the courtyard gate, they met Lord Walter. He
was on horseback ready for the hunt. The foremost of the company prayed him to grant them a
little time that they might tell him why they had come.

Lord Walter threw the reins to a squire, and led his people into the great hall of the castle.
There he seated himself in state to listen to their grievance whatever it might be.

Then the same man who had spoken before said to him:

"Noble Marquis, thy generous kindness in times past giveth us courage to come before thee.
Truly, sire, thou and all thou dost art so dear to us that, save in one thing, we cannot wish
for better fortune than to live under thy government. One thing alone disturbs the peace of
thy faithful people. Though thou art young and strong, yet age creeps on! Time flies and waits
for no man. Death threatens young and old alike. We pray thee, sire, that thou wilt wed, for
if swift death should lay thee low ere a son be born to thee, then alack for us and for our
children! In the power of a stranger then would lie our fair lands and even our lives. Grant
us this boon, noble Marquis, and, if thou wilt, we will choose for thee a wife. Noble shall
she be, and good, so that thou shalt have honor and gladness in thy wedding."

Then the Marquis said:

"My people, loyal and true, ye ask of me that which I thought not to grant, for the free life
of the forest and the hunt pleaseth me well. Yet will I do this thing that ye desire. Only
to me myself must fall the choice of her whom I will wed. On you I lay this command that, be
she who she may, yet shall ye honor her as if she were an Emperor's daughter through all her
life. Nor shall ye raise one word against the maiden of my choice. Unless ye agree to this,
I will not wed!"

Gladly the people promised. But ere they left the Marquis, they begged him to fix a day for
the marriage lest he should put off too long. The Marquis granted their request, and farmers,
knights, and lords trooped joyfully home.

When the morning of the day that was fixed for the wedding came, the castle of the Marquis
was gaily decorated. Flags floated out from the towers, and garlands trailed over the doorway
and the gate. Within in the great hall a royal feast was spread, and there lay royal robes
and gems.

In the courtyard and on the terraces lords and ladies stood in groups. Wonder and doubt were
on every face. The wedding-feast was prepared, the guests were come, but there was no bride.

A trumpet sounded "to horse," and all was hurry and noise. Then Lord Walter rode out through
the castle gate. He was followed by bearers, who carried the beautiful robes and gems that
had lain in the hall.

They rode out by the same road along which Griselda had watched the people go to ask the Marquis
to wed, many months before. Now she saw the bridal train ride down from the castle. "Ah," she
said, "they ride this way to fetch the bride. I shall work more busily than ever to-day that
I may be free to stand and watch Lord Walter's fair bride as the riders return with her to
the castle!"

Then she went to the well to fetch water. When she came back she found Lord Walter at her father's
door. In the narrow lane beside the cottage stood lords and ladies, while their horses impatiently
pawed the ground.

Quickly Griselda set her pitcher in a trough near the cottage door, and knelt before the Marquis
to hear his will.

"Where is thy father?" Lord Walter asked.

"Close at hand, my Lord," said Griselda, and went to bring him without delay.

"My faithful servant," said Lord Walter to the old man, "grant me thy daughter for my wife!"

Janicola knew not what to say for surprise. At last he answered, "My will is thine! Do as thou
wilt, my own dear Lord!"

"Then must I ask Griselda if she will be my wife; but stay thou by us. Thou shalt hear her answer."

Griselda was amazed. She did not know what the meaning of Lord Walter's visit was, and when
she stood before him her face was full of fear. Her wonder was very great when she heard him say:

"Griselda, I am come for thee. Thee only will I wed. Thy father also is willing. But ere thou
tell me whether or no thou wilt be my bride, listen to the demand I make. Art thou ready to
obey me in everything, and to let me do to thee evil or good as I will without so much as turning
to me a frowning face?"

This seemed a strange request to Grisdda, but she loved and trusted Lord Walter so truly that
she said:

"Lord, I am not worthy of this honor. Verily in all things thy will shall be mine. Life is
sweet, but I will die rather than displease thee."

"Enough, Griselda!" he said.

Then Lord Walter turned to the courtiers and the people of the village who had gathered round:

"Behold my wife! Let all show their love to me by the honor and love they bear to her."

The ladies of the court were commanded to take off Griselda's old clothes and to array her
in the costly robes they had brought with them. They did not like to touch the poor soiled
clothes she wore, nor to move about in the little cottage with their sweeping gowns; but the
gentleness of Griselda made it pleasant to help her. They caught up Griselda's royal robes
with great clasps of gold set with gems, and put a crown on her beautiful hair.

She came out and stood in the low doorway, where she had so often stood before. But now the
people scarcely knew her: she looked so fair in her new robes and with the love-light shining
in her eyes.

Lord Walter did not wait till he reached the castle. He was married to Griselda at her father's
cottage door. The villagers gathered round and gazed at the simple wedding. They saw Lord Walter
put a great ring on Griselda's finger, and lift her on to a milk-white steed. Then they led
her with joy towards the castle. Wedding-bells rang out gladly across the plain, and ever as
the wedding-party drew near to the white towers with their floating flags, happy bands of people
came to meet and welcome Griselda.

Very soon the fame of Lord Walter's beautiful wife spread through the land. Nor was it only
for her beauty that men praised her. Gracious she was and wise, able to rule her home, and
to bend fiery spirits to her will.

From all the countryside men came to her in trouble. Every one rejoiced in the good fortune
that had come to their land, and some even called her an angel from heaven come to right all wrong.

After some time a daughter was born to Griselda. Then she thought she was the happiest woman
in the world. She thought of the care that she would give her child as she grew up, and of
Lord Walter's delight in his little daughter when the time should come that she could talk
and ride with him.

But before the baby was a year old, all Griselda's dreams were broken. Lord Walter said to
himself, "It is easy for Griselda to keep her promise when I ask of her nothing that is not
just and right. How can I trust her until I know that she will obey me in everything? I wonder
whether she would be patient still if I hurt our little daughter."

These thoughts came back to his mind so often that at last he resolved to try Griselda's patience
by taking away her baby from her.

One evening Griselda was playing with her little child. The baby laughed in her arms and looked
sweeter than ever. At that moment the curtain at the doorway was drawn aside and Lord Walter
came into the room. His face was sad and drawn, and as Griselda looked up at him she feared
that some great blow had fallen on him, or that some enemy had entered the country.

Lord Walter said to her:

"Griselda, thou hast not forgotten the day on which I brought thee from thy father's lowly
cottage to this my castle. Although thou art most dear to me, thou art not dear to my nobles.
They say that it is hard that they should serve one so lowly born as thou. Since thy daughter
was born they have said this more and more, I doubt not. As thou knowest, my will is to live
with my people in joy and peace. Therefore must I do to my child not as I wish myself, but
as my nobles wish. Show then to me the obedience that thou didst promise to show when thou
wert wed in the village street."

As Griselda heard these words she made no moan. Neither did she let the pain that caught at
her heart be seen in her face. When she could speak, she said:

"Lord, we are thine! My child is thine. I also am thine. With thine own thou mayest ever do
as pleaseth thee best."

The Marquis was full of joy because of the patience and humbleness of Griselda; but he appeared
to be sad, and left her with a troubled face.

Soon after this, Griselda started as she heard a heavy footstep on the stairway. Then an evil-looking
man walked into the quiet room.

"Madam," he said, "I must obey my lord's will. He bids me take this child. Thou knowest we
must obey, although we may complain and mourn."

Then the soldier took the child so roughly that it seemed as if he would kill it before her.
Griselda said:

"Pray, sir, do thou suffer me to kiss my child ere it die." He gave it back to her. Gently
she gathered it in her arms. She blessed it, and lulled it, and kissed it. Then she said in
her sweet voice: "Farewell, my child, I shall see thee never again. The blessing of Him who
died on a cross of wood for us, rest on thee. To Him I give thy soul, my little one! To-night
thou must die because of me."

To the rough soldier she said:

"Take again the child and obey my Lord. But if it please my Lord, then of thy kindness bury
thou the little body where no cruel bird nor beast can harm it!"

But in silence the soldier carried away the child.

Then Lord Walter looked to see if Griselda would fret or be less kind to him. He watched, but
could see no change in her. She was as busy and loving and cheerful as ever. Neither in earnest
nor in play did she name her child.

After four years a son was born to Griselda. The people were very glad because there was now
an heir to rule the land at the death of Lord Walter. Griselda too was happy, though her heart
longed for the little maid who might have been playing with her brother.

When the boy was two years old, Lord Walter began to wish once more to try the patience of
Griselda.

This time he said to her:

"Wife, I have told thee before how ill the people bear our marriage. Now that a son is born
they are more wrathful than before. My heart is weary with the thought of their complaints.
They say, 'When Lord Walter is gone, the grandson of Janicola shall rule us!' Therefore I shall
do with my son as I did with his sister. Be patient, I pray thee."

"Thou art my Lord," said Griselda. "My will and my freedom lie in my father's cottage with
the poor soiled clothes I left there on the day thou didst bring me hither. Could I know thy
will before thou didst tell it to me, it would be done, though it were death to do it. Life
cannot compare with thy love."

Lord Walter looked down to the ground. He could not look at his wife lest he should not have
heart to do as he wished.

Again the rude soldier came to Griselda. He was even harsher than before, and carried off the
child without a kind word to the patient mother.

When the little boy was gone, the people said very bitter things about Lord Walter. The love
they had given him before was turned into hatred because he had treated his beautiful wife
so unkindly, and because he had murdered his children.

Though Lord Walter saw this, he wished to try his wife once more. He knew that he could send
away his wife and marry another if he got a letter from the Pope to say that he might. He sent
a messenger to Rome, where the Pope lived. This messenger was told to bring back a letter,
not from the Pope, but as like one of his as possible.

The letter came. It said that because of the anger of Lord Walter's people at the lowly birth
of his wife Griselda, the Marquis might send her away and marry another.

The news of the letter spread throughout the land. Every one believed that it had really come
from the Pope.

Griselda's heart was very sore when she heard of this letter. But she went on quietly with
each day's work. She did not even speak of the letter to her husband.

At last Lord Walter spoke before all his court, and with no knightly gentleness.

"Griselda," he said, "there is no freedom in the life of one who rules. I may not act after
my own wish as any laborer on my land may do. As thou knowest, my people hate thy presence,
and demand of me that I wed another. The Pope's letter thou hast heard. Return then, swiftly
and without complaint, to thy father's cottage, for already my bride cometh hither."

"My Lord, it is no new thought to me, that I am unworthy to be thy servant--far more unworthy
to be thy wife. In this great house of which thou didst make me queen, I have not acted as
mistress, but only as lowly handmaid to thee. For these years of thy kindness, I thank thee.
Gladly do I go to my father's house. There he tended me when I was but a child. Now I will
stay with him till death enters the cottage door. To thee and to thy bride be joy. To her I
willingly yield the place where I have been so happy. Since thou, who once wert all my joy,
wilt have me go, I go!"

Lord Walter turned away in sadness. He could scarcely speak for pity, but he held to his purpose.

Then Griselda drew her wedding-ring from her finger, and laid it down. Beside it she put the
gems that Lord Walter had given her. Her beautiful robes she laid aside. In the simplest gown
she could find, and with head and feet all bare, Griselda went down through the olive trees
towards her father's house.

Many of Lord Walter's people followed her, weeping and bewailing the fickleness of fortune.
Griselda did not turn to them, nor speak, nor weep. She quietly went on her way.

When the tidings reached her father, he wished that he had never been born, so sad was he in
the sorrow of his beautiful daughter. He hastened out to meet her, and wrapped her tenderly
in her old cloak, and led her home with tears.

Griselda spoke no word of complaint, nor did she speak of her former happiness. Once more she
tended the sheep on the common. Once more she carried water from the well. Once more she thought
first of her father.

After some weeks Lord Walter sent for Griselda. She went to the castle and greeted him humbly
as of old. She showed no grudge because of his unkindness.

"Griselda," he said, "thou knowest, as doth no other, how all this castle should be ordered
for my pleasure. Stay thou then, and have all in readiness for the fair young bride whom I
shall wed to-morrow. It is my will that she be welcomed royally."

"My whole desire is to serve thee, my Lord. Neither weal nor woe shall ever make me cease to
love thee with all my heart."

At once Griselda took control of all who worked in the castle. Of them all she was the neatest
and the quickest. Soon every room in the tower was sweet and clean. The great hall was decked
for the wedding-feast, and the table glittered with silver.

Early next morning many horsemen came to the castle. Among them was a beautiful girl dressed
in a shimmering white robe. Near her rode a charming boy younger than the maiden. Round them
were many nobles, and a guard of soldiers, who had brought them to Lord Walter's court.

The people crowded round the gates. So charmed were they with the fair young maid, that some
of them forgot their love for Griselda, and were ready to welcome the bride whose coming caused
her so much sorrow.

Still Griselda moved about the castle in her old worn clothes. She went to the gate to welcome
the bride. Then she received the guests and greeted each of them according to his degree.

The stranger nobles wondered who Griselda could be. She was so wise and gentle, and yet so
meanly dressed.

Before the feast began, Lord Walter called Griselda to him. Then he asked her, "What dost thou
think of my wife? Is she beautiful?"

"Never have I seen a fairer," said Griselda. "Joy be with you both evermore! But oh! I beg
of thee, torment not this child as thou didst me. She has been tenderly cared for. She could
not bear what I have borne."

When Lord Walter saw her great patience, and thought of the pain he had caused her, his heart
went out to her in great pity, and he cried, "It is enough, Griselda; fear no more, nor be
thou longer sad. I have tried thy faith and thy sweetness, as faith and sweetness have never
before been tried."

His arms were around her, and he kissed her. Griselda looked at him in wonder. She could not
understand.

"Griselda," he said, "thou art my wife. I have no other. This is thy daughter; her brother
is my heir. Thine are they both. Take them again, and dream not that thou art bereft of thy
children."

When Griselda heard all this she fainted away in her great joy. When she woke again she called
her children to her. Timidly they came, but soon they were caught close to her breast. While
she fondled them, and kissed them, her hot tears of joy fell on their fair faces, and on their
hair. Then she looked at Lord Walter, and said, "Death cannot harm me now, since thou lovest
me still." Then she turned back to the children.

"Oh tender, oh dear, oh little ones, my children! Your sorrowful mother thought that cruel
dogs or other fearsome beasts had torn you! but God has kept you safe."

Once again the ladies of the court dressed Griselda in royal robes. Once again they set a golden
crown upon her head. Once again the wedding-ring slipped into its own place on her finger.

Ere she entered the hall of feasting again, swift messengers had brought her old father, Janicola,
to the castle, never to leave it again.

Then Griselda sat with her children beside her husband. To her feet came lords and nobles,
peasants and farmers, eager to kiss her hand and to show the joy they felt in her return.

Never had the walls of the castle reechoed the laughter of so glad a people. All day long till
the stars shone in the cool clear sky the feasting went on.

For Griselda this was the first of many happy days, happier than she had known before.

In her home sounded the gay voices of happy children as they played with, and cared for, the
old grandfather whom their mother loved so dearly. And ever as she moved about the castle she
met the eyes of Lord Walter, that told her again and yet again that he trusted her utterly.
His fear was so great that he brake out with a mournful cry, saying, "What shall I do?"

In this plight therefore he went home, and did all he could to hide his distress from his wife
and children. But he could not be silent long, because his trouble increased. Wherefore at
length he began to talk to his wife and children thus: "O my dear wife," said he, "and you
my children, I am in despair by reason of a burden that lieth heavy on me. Moreover I am for
certain told that this our city will be burned with fire from heaven, when both myself, with
thee, my wife, and you, my sweet babes, shall be ruined, except some way of escape can be found."
At this his wife and children were sore amazed, not because they believed that what he had
said to them was true, but because they thought he must be ill to talk in so strange a way.
He told them, "Worse and worse," and began to talk to them again in the same strange manner,
but they began to be careless of his words. They also thought to drive away his fancies by
harsh and rough behavior to him. Sometimes they would mock, sometimes they would scold, and
sometimes they would quite neglect him. Wherefore he began to stay in his room to pray for
and pity them, and also to comfort his own misery. He would also walk alone in the fields,
sometimes reading and sometimes praying, and thus for some days he spent his time. And I find
I am not willing to die, nor able to be judged."

Then said Evangelist, "Why not willing to die, since in this life you are so unhappy?"

The man answered, "Because I fear this burden will sink me lower than the grave, and the thought
of that makes me cry."

Then said Evangelist, "If this be thy fear, why standest thou still?"

He answered, "Because I know not whither to go."

Then said the man, "Neighbors, wherefore are you come?"

"What do you seek, since you leave all the world to find it?" said Obstinate.

"I seek a treasure that never fades away. It is laid up in heaven and is safe there," said
Christian. "Read it so, if you will, in my book."

"Tush!" said Obstinate, "away with your book. Will you go back with us or no?"

"No, not I," said the other, "because I have just set out."

"Come then, Neighbor Pliable, let us turn again and go home without him."

Then said Pliable, "If what the good Christian says is true, the things he looks after are
better than ours. My heart makes me wish to go with him. But, my good Christian, do you know
the way you are going?"

"I am directed by a man, whose name is Evangelist, to speed me to a little gate that is before
us, where we shall be told about the way."

"Come then, good neighbor," said Pliable, "let us be going." Then they went both together.

"And I will go back to my place," said Obstinate. "I will tell you what my book says of the
country to which we are going, and of the people we shall meet there," said Christian.

"But do you think the words of your book are certainly true?" said Pliable.

"Yes," said Christian, "for it was written by Him who cannot lie."

"Well," said Pliable, "tell me about this country."

"In this country," said Christian, "we shall live for ever. There are crowns of glory to be
given us, and garments that will make us shine like the sun."

"This is excellent," said Pliable; "and what else?"

"There shall be no more crying nor sorrow, for He that is the Owner of the place will wipe
all tears from our eyes," said Christian.

"And what companions shall we have there?" asked Pliable.

"There we shall be with those that will dazzle your eyes to look on. There also you shall meet
with thousands and tens of thousands that have gone before us to that place. None of of them
are hurtful, but loving and holy.

And as Pliable heard of the excellence of the country and of the company to which they were
going, he said, "Well, my good companion, glad I am to hear of these things. Come on, let us
go with more speed."

"I cannot go as fast as I would by reason of this burden that is on my back," said Christian.
If I get out again with my life, you shall possess the wonderful country alone."

"Why did you not look for the steps?" said Help.

"I was so full of fear," answered Christian, "that I fled the next way and fell in."

Then said Help, "Give me thy hand." So Christian gave him his hand, and he drew him out and
set him upon sound ground, and bid him go on his way.

Now in my dream I stepped up to the man that plucked Christian out, and said:

"Sir, wherefore, since over this place is the way from the City of Destruction to the Wicket-gate,
is it that this Slough is not mended, that poor travelers might go over in more safety?"

And he said to me, "This place cannot be mended, yet it is not the pleasure of the King that
it should remain so bad. His laborers also have for more than sixteen hundred years been employed
on this patch of ground, in the hope that it might perhaps be mended. There has been swallowed
up here twenty thousand cartloads of the best material in the attempt to mend the place. But
it is the Slough of Despond still; and still will be so, when they have done all they can.
It is true that there are some good and strong steps even through the very midst of this mire.
Others again did mock at his cowardliness, saying, "Surely since you began to go, you need
not have been so base as to have given out for a few difficulties." So Pliable sat like a coward
among them.

Now as Christian was walking alone, he espied one afar off, come crossing over the field to
meet him. The gentleman's name was Mr. Worldly Wiseman. He dwelt in a very great town, close
by the one from which Christian came. This man, then, meeting with Christian, began thus to
enter into some talk with him: "How now, good fellow, whither are you going in this burdened
manner?"

"A burdened manner indeed," said Christian.

"Yes, but I am so laden with this burden that I cannot take that pleasure in them as formerly."

"Will you hearken to me if I give thee counsel?"

"If it be good, I will, for I stand in need of good counsel."

"That is what I seek for, even to be rid of this heavy burden, but get it off myself I cannot,
nor is there any man living in our country who can take it off my shoulders. Therefore I am
going this way, as I told you, that I may be rid of my burden."

"Who bid thee go this way to be rid of thy burden?"

"A man that appeared to me a very great and honorable person. His name, as I remember, is Evangelist."

"He has given thee foolish counsel. There is not a more dangerous and troublesome way in the
world than is that unto which he hath directed thee. Thou hast met with some danger already,
for I see the mud of the Slough of Despond is upon thee.

"Sir, I pray that thou wilt tell me this secret."

"Why, in yonder village there dwells a gentleman, who is very wise, and who has skill to help
men off with burdens like thine from their shoulders. To him thou mayest go to be helped at once.

Now the Christian puzzled, but he thought, "If what Mr. Worldly Wiseman says is true, my wisest
plan is to take his advice."

"Sir," said Christian, "which is my way to this honest man's house?"

"Do you see yonder high hill?"

"Yes, very well."

"By that hill you must go, and the first house you come to is his."

So Christian turned out of his way to go to the house for help. But behold, when he was now
close to the hill, it seemed so steep, and also that side of it that was next the wayside did
hang so much over, that Christian was afraid to venture farther, lest the hill should fall
on his head. Wherefore he stood still, and knew not what to do. Here therefore he did quake
for fear.

"Yes," said Christian, "I am the man."

"Did I not direct thee the way to the little Wicket-gate?"

"Yes," said Christian.

"How is it, then, that thou art so quickly turned out of the way?"

"I met with a gentleman as soon as I had got over the Slough of Despond, who told me that in
yonder village I might find a man who could take off my burden."

"What was he like?"

"He looked like a gentleman, and talked much to me, and got me at last to believe his words.
So I came hither, but when I beheld this hill and how it hangs over the way, I suddenly stood
still lest it should fall on my head."

"What said that gentleman to you?"

"Why, he asked me whither I was going, and if I had a wife and children, and he bid me make
speed to get rid of my burden. And I said, 'I am going to yonder gate to be told how I may
get rid of it.'

"So he said he would show me a better and a shorter way, and not so full of difficulties as
the way that you directed me. But when I came to this place, I stopped for fear of danger,
and now I know not what to do!" So Christian stood trembling before Evangelist.

Then said Evangelist, "Give heed to the things I shall tell thee. Mr. Worldly Wiseman sought
to turn thee out of the way and to bring thee into danger. In yonder village has no man ever
yet got rid of his burden, nor is he ever likely to lose it there. Therefore, Mr. Worldly Wiseman
and his friend are deceivers, and cannot help thee."

After this there came words and fire out of the mountain under which Christian stood. Now Christian
looked for nothing but death, and began to cry out, saying he would he had never met Mr. Worldly
Wiseman or that he had never listened to him. Then he turned to Evangelist and said, "Sir,
what do you think? Is there any hope? May I now go back and go up to the Wicket-gate? Or shall
I be sent back from the gate ashamed? I am sorry I have listened to this man's counsel, but
may my sins be forgiven?"

Evangelist said to him, "Thy sin is very great.

Then did Christian prepare to go back. And Evangelist, after he had kissed him, gave him one
smile, and bid him Godspeed. So Christian went on with haste, neither spake he to any man by
the way. Even if any one spoke to him, he would not venture an answer. At last there came a
grave person to the gate, named Good-will. He asked who was there, and whence he came, and
what he desired.

"I am a sinner," said Christian; "I come from the City of Destruction, but am going to Mount
Zion. I am told that by this gate is the way thither, and I would know if you are willing to
let me in."

"I am willing with all my heart," said Good-will, and he opened the gate. So when Christian
was stepping in, the other gave him a pull.

"Why do you do that?" said Christian.

Then Good-will told him, "A little distance from this gate a strong castle has been built,
of which Beelzebub is the captain. And he and those that are with him shoot arrows at those
that come up to this gate, hoping they may die before they enter in."

So when Christian had come in, Good-will asked him who had directed him to the gate.

"Evangelist bid me come here and knock, as I did. And he said that you, sir, would tell me
what I must do." This is the way thou must go."

"But," said Christian, "are there no turnings, nor windings, by which a stranger may lose his way?"

"Yes, there are many ways join this, but they are crooked and wide. Thou mayest know the right
from the wrong way, for the right way is always strait and narrow."

Then I saw in my dream that Christian asked him if he could not help him off with his burden
that was upon his back. For as yet he had not got rid of it, nor could he get it off without
help. But Good-will said, "Thou must be content to bear it, until thou comest to a place where
stands a Cross, for there it will fall from thy back of itself."

Then Christian began to get ready to continue his journey. Then Christian took leave of his
friend, and he again bid him Godspeed. Now Christian went on till he came to the house of the
Interpreter, where he knocked over and over. At last one came to the door and asked who was there.

"Sir," said Christian, "I am a traveler who was told by Good-will to call here. He had eyes
lifted up to heaven, the best of books in his hand, and a crown of gold did hang over his head.

Then said Christian, "What means this?"

"The man whose picture this is," answered the Interpreter, "is one of a thousand. And when
this was done the room was swept and cleansed.

Then said Christian, "What does this mean?"

The Interpreter answered, "This parlor is like the heart of an evil man. The dust is his sin,
and the damsel that sprinkles the water is the Gospel." But afterwards the Interpreter took
him to the back of the wall, where he saw a man with a vessel of oil in his hand, and he poured
the oil continually, but secretly, into the fire.

"What does this mean?" asked Christian.

The Interpreter answered, "The fire is a picture of the grace God puts into the heart. He that
casts water on it to put it out is the Evil One. And the man who pours oil on the fire to keep
it alight is Christ."

Then said Christian, "May we go in here?" So the Interpreter took him and led him toward the
door of the palace. Now before they came up to the door, they passed a man, sitting at a table,
with a book and his inkhorn before him, to take down the name of any who should enter. And,
behold, at the door stood a great company of men, who wished to go in, but did not dare to
enter, for within the doorway stood many men in armor to guard it. Now, these men in armor
were determined to do any who would enter as much harm and mischief as they could. Christian
was amazed. The armed men fought with great strength, but the man with the strong face was
not at all discouraged, but fought most fiercely.

And the Interpreter said, "Hast thou understood these things?"

"Yes," said Christian, and he began to get ready to go on his journey.

Then said the Interpreter, "God be always with thee, good Christian, to guide thee in the way
that leads to Mount Zion."

Now I saw in my dream that the highway up which Christian was to go was fenced on either side
with a wall. So I saw in my dream that just as Christian came up to the Cross his burden fell
from off his back, and began to tumble till it came to the mouth of the Sepulcher, where it
fell in and I saw it no more. Then was Christian glad and happy, and he stood for a while to
look and wonder, for it was surprising to him to see that the Cross should make him lose his
burden. Now as he stood looking, behold three Shining Ones came to him and greeted him.

The first said to him, "Thy sins be forgiven thee." The second took away all his rags and clothed
him in new raiment. I saw then in my dream that as he walked he saw two men come tumbling over
the wall into the narrow way.

"Gentlemen, where do you come from and whither do you go?" said Christian.

They told him, "We were born in a land called Vainglory, and we are going to Mount Zion."

"Why came you not in at the gate?" said Christian.

They said that to go to the gate was too far, so they had taken a short cut and climbed over
the wall.

"But," said Christian, "will the Lord of the City to which we are going be pleased that you
should come into the way over the wall?"

But the men said he need not trouble his head about that, for what they did had been done many
times before. It had been a custom for more than a thousand years. And besides, said they,
"If we get into the way, what does it matter how we get in? You came in by the Wicket-gate,
and are in the way, and we came tumbling over the wall and are in the way, so now we are all
in the same condition."

"But," said Christian, "I walk by the Rule of my Master, and you walk just as you like best."

Then said they, "We see not how thou art different to us, except by the coat thou wearest,
and that, we suppose, was given thee by some of thy neighbors, to hide thy rags."

"Well," said Christian, "the Lord of the City to which I go gave me this coat the day that
he took away from me my rags. He will surely know me, since I have His coat on my back. I have
also a mark in my forehead, which you may not have noticed, and this was given to me by one
of my Lord's friends, on the day my burden fell off my shoulders. I will tell you too, that
I had a roll given me, to comfort me by reading, as I go on the way. I am also to give in the
roll at the Celestial Gate. All these things I think you are without, because you came not
in at the gate."

To these things they gave him no answer, only they looked at each other and laughed. I beheld
then, that they all went on without talking much together, till they came to the foot of the
hill Difficulty, at the bottom of which was a spring. The narrow way lay right up the hill,
but there were also two other ways here. One turned to the left hand and the other to the right
at the bottom of the hill. Christian now went to the spring and drank to refresh himself, and
then began to go up the narrow path that led to the top of the hill. The other two also came
to the foot of the hill. But when they saw that the hill was steep and high, they made up their
minds to go in the other paths that lay round the side of the hill. When Christian got there
he sat down to rest, then he pulled out his roll and read in it to comfort himself, and he
began again to look at the garment that was given to him at the Cross. The name of the one
was Timorous, and the other Mistrust.

Then said Christian, "You make me afraid, but yet I will go forward." So Mistrust and Timorous
ran down the hill, and Christian went on his way. And as he went he thought again of what he
heard from the men. At last he bethought himself that he had slept in the arbor that was on
the side of the hill, and then he went back to look for his roll. But all the way he went back,
who can tell the sorrow of Christian's heart? Sometimes he sighed, sometimes he wept, and often
he chid himself for being so foolish as to fall asleep. Thus therefore he went back, carefully
looking on this side and on that all the way as he went. For he hoped to find the roll that
had been his comfort so many times in his journey. And as he went towards the arbor, he sighed
over his sleepiness, saying, "Oh, foolish man that I was, why did I sleep in the daytime? oh,
that I had not slept."

Now, by the time he was come to the arbor again, for a while he sat down and wept, but, at
last, looking sorrowfully down under the settle, he espied his roll, which with trembling haste
he caught up. But who can tell how joyful Christian was when he had got his roll again, or
with what joy and tears he began to go up the hill again. And, oh, how nimbly did he go up!
Yet before he reached the top the sun went down. Now Christian remembered the story that Mistrust
and Timorous had told him, how they were frightened with the sight of the lions. And he said
to himself, "If these beasts meet me in the dark, how shall I escape being by them torn in
pieces?" Now before he had gone far, he entered into a very narrow passage; and looking before
him as he went, he espied two lions in the way. The lions were chained, but Christian did not
see the chains. Then he was afraid and thought he would go back, but the porter at the lodge,
whose name is Watchful, seeing Christian stop, as if he would go back, cried, "Fear not the
lions, for they are chained."

So Watchful the porter rang a bell, at the sound of which a grave and beautiful damsel came
out of the door. When she saw Christian she brought him into the Palace Beautiful, and she
and her sisters talked with him until supper was ready. Now all their talk at table was about
the Lord of the hill, and, by what they said, I knew that He had been a great Warrior, and
that He had fought and slain Death, but not without great danger to Himself, which made me
love Him the more. They talked together till late at night, and after they had committed themselves
to their Lord for protection, they went to bed. The room in which the pilgrim slept had a window
opening towards the sunrising, and the name of the room was Peace. In the morning they all
got up, and after some more talk, they told him that they would take him to the armory before
he left them. So they did, and when he came out, he was harnessed from head to foot, lest he
should be attacked in the way.

"Oh," said Christian, "I know him. He comes from the place where I was born. How far do you
think he has got?"

"By this time he is below the hill," said the porter.

Then Christian began to go down the hill into the Valley of Humiliation, where it is difficult
not to slip. He went down very warily, yet he slipped once or twice. Now in the valley Christian
had a hard fight with a fiend called Apollyon. Apollyon was a monster and hideous to behold.
He was clothed with scales like a fish, he had wings like a dragon, feet like a bear, and his
mouth was as the mouth of a lion, and out of it came fire and smoke. When he came up to Christian
he looked at him with rage in his face, and said, "Prepare thyself to die, for thou shalt go
no farther." And he threw a flaming dart at him, but Christian had a shield in his hand, which
caught the dart, so that it did him no harm. Then did Christian draw his sword, but Apollyon
threw darts at him as thick as hail, and wounded him in his head, his hand, and foot. This
great combat lasted half a day, till Christian was almost worn out.

Then Apollyon came close to Christian, and wrestled with him and gave him a dreadful fall,
and Christian's sword flew out of his hand.

"I am sure of thee now," said Apollyon. But while he was taking a last blow to kill this good
man altogether, Christian nimbly stretched out his hand for his sword, and caught it.

So when the battle was over, Christian said, "I will give thanks to Him that did help me against
Apollyon."

He also sat down in that place to eat and drink, so being refreshed, he again began his journey,
with his sword drawn in his hand, "For," said he, "I do not know if some other enemy may not
be at hand." Now this valley is a very lonely place. It is like a wilderness or a desert full
of pits. No man dwells in it, and no man but a Christian passeth through it. Here Christian
had a worse time than even in his fight with Apollyon. I saw then in my dream that when Christian
had reached the borders of this valley, there met him two men, making haste to go back.

Christian said to them, "Whither are you going?"

"Back, back," they cried, "as you will go, if you prize life or peace!"

"Why, what is the matter?" said Christian.

"Matter!" said they. "We were going the way you are going, and we went as far as we dared.
But had we gone a little farther we had not been here to bring the news to thee."

"But what have you met with?" said Christian. Death also doth always spread his wings over
it. In a word, it is altogether dreadful, being utterly without order."

"But," said Christian, "this is the way to the Celestial City."

"Be it your way, then; we will not choose it for ours." So they parted. Christian went on his
way, but still with his sword drawn in his hand, lest he should be attacked.

I saw then in my dream, that as far as this valley reached, there was on the right hand a very
deep ditch. Again, behold, on the left hand, there was a very dangerous mire, into which if
a man falls he finds no bottom for his foot to stand on. The pathway here was also exceeding
narrow, and therefore Christian was the more distressed. For when he sought in the dark to
shun the ditch on the one hand, he was ready to tumble over into the mire on the other, and
when he sought to escape the mire, without great carefulness he would nearly fall into the
ditch. Then he went on, and I heard him sigh bitterly. For besides these dangers, the pathway
was here so dark, that when he lifted up his foot to go forward, he knew not where, nor upon
what he should set it next. Sometimes he thought he would go back, but again he thought he
might be half-way through the valley. So he resolved to go on, yet the fiends seemed to come
nearer and nearer. But when they were come almost close to him, he cried out in a loud voice,
"I will walk in the strength of the Lord God." Then the fiends went back and came no farther.
Then he was glad, for he thought that some one who feared God was in this valley, as well as
himself, and he hoped to overtake him and have company by and by.

Now morning being come, he looked back to see by the light of day what dangers he had gone
through in the night. So he saw more plainly the ditch that was on the one hand, and the mire
that was on the other, also how narrow the way was that lay between them both. He saw, too,
the hobgoblins and dragons, but all afar off, for after break of day they came not nigh. In
this light, therefore, he came to the end of the valley.

Now as Christian went on his way, he came to a little hill, and going up he looked forward
and saw Faithful before him. Then said Christian, "Stay, and I will be your companion."

And when he overtook Faithful they went very lovingly on together, and talked of all that had
happened to them in their pilgrimage.

At this fair there were sold houses, lands, trades, husbands, wives, children, silver, gold,
pearls, and precious stones. And, moreover, at this fair, there were at all times cheats and
jugglers and knaves and rogues.

Now the way to the Celestial City lay just through this town, so the pilgrims had to go through
the fair.

The Prince of princes Himself, when here, went through this town to his own country, and that
on a fair-day too. And, I think, it was Beelzebub the chief lord of this fair that invited
the Prince to buy of his vanities. Beelzebub even said he would have made Him lord of the fair,
if He would have done him reverence as He went through the town. Yea, because the Prince was
so great a person, Beelzebub took Him from street to street and showed Him all his kingdoms,
that he might, if possible, tempt the Prince to buy some of his vanities. But the Blessed One
did not wish any of these vanities, and therefore left the town without spending so much as
one farthing upon these vanities.

Now these pilgrims, Christian and Faithful, as I said, had to go through this fair.

Well, so they did, but behold, whenever they entered into the fair, it and the town itself
were in a hubbub about them. For the pilgrims were clothed with raiment that was very different
from the raiment of any that traded in that fair. The people gazed upon Christian and Faithful
and called them outlandish men.

Then also, they wondered at the pilgrim's speech, as few could understand what they said, for
they spoke the language of the Celestial City. But those that kept the fair spoke the language
of the city of Vanity Fair, and they could not understand one another.

Now when these pilgrims would not buy their wares and would not even look at them, the sellers
were angry and mocked these men, and some called on others to smite them. At last the master
of the fair told his men to question the pilgrims. And when Christian and Faithful told the
men that they were strangers in the world and were going to the Celestial City, the men thought
they were mad. Therefore they took them and beat them and threw mud at them, and then they
put them in a cage to be a show to the people at the fair. But when they were tired of mocking
them, these two pilgrims were again examined and charged as guilty of the great disturbance
in the fair. So they beat them pitilessly, and hanged irons upon them, and led them in chains
up and down the fair. Then Christian and Faithful behaved so wisely and patiently, that the
others were still more angry, and said they would put these men to death.

Therefore, after a trial, Faithful was brought out, to do with him according to their law.
And first they scourged him, then they buffeted him, then they stoned him with stones, then
they pricked him with their swords, and last of all they burned him to ashes at the stake.
Now I saw behind the people a chariot and a couple of horses waiting for Faithful, who was
taken by it through the clouds, the nearest way to the Celestial City. Then was Christian sent
back to the prison, where he dwelt for a time, till he escaped and went again on his way. But
he did not go alone, for there was one whose name was Hopeful, who left the town of Vanity,
and was a companion to Christian in his pilgrimage. They went on their way till they came to
a pleasant river. Now I beheld in my dream that they had not journeyed far, when the river
and the way parted, and at this they were very sorry, yet they dare not go out of the way.

A little before them was a meadow and a stile to go over into it. Then said Christian, "If
this meadow lies along by our path, let us go over." He went to the stile to see, and behold,
a path lay alongside of the way, on the other side of the fence.

"That is as I wish," said Christian. "Come, good Hopeful, and let us go over.

"But," said Hopeful, "what if this path should lead us out of the way?"

"That is not likely," said the other. "Look, it goes along by the wayside." So Hopeful, being
persuaded by Christian, went after him over the stile. When they had gone over and had got
into the path, they found it very easy for their feet.

"Look," said Christian to Hopeful, "did I not tell you so? You see, we are right after all."
So they followed Vain-confidence, and he went before them. This pit was made by the Prince
of those grounds on purpose, to catch such foolish men as Vain-confidence. He, then, fell into
the pit and was dashed to pieces with his fall. But Christian was silent, for he began to be
afraid that he had led Hopeful out of the way.

Now it began to rain and thunder and lighten in a very dreadful manner, and the river flowed
over the banks.

And Hopeful groaned, "Oh that I had kept on my way."

By this time the waters were greatly risen, so that to go back was very dangerous. Yet they
tried to go back, but it was so dark, and the flood was so high, that as they went they were
nearly drowned nine or ten times, and they could not reach the stile again that night. Wherefore
the giant, getting up early, and walking up and down in his fields, caught Christian and Hopeful
asleep. Then with a grim and surly voice he woke them, and asked them what they were doing
in his grounds. They told him they were pilgrims and had lost their way.

The giant said, "You have trampled on my ground, and slept on it, and therefore you must go
along with me." So they were forced to go, because he was stronger than they. Also they said
very little, for they knew they had done wrong. Now Giant Despair had a wife, and he told her
he had taken a couple of men prisoners, because they were sleeping on his grounds. Then she
told him that, when he arose in the morning, he should beat them without mercy.

So Giant Despair got a cudgel, and went down to the dungeon and beat Christian and Hopeful
fearfully, so that they could not move. Then the giant left them, and they spent their time
in sighs and bitter tears.

The next night Giant Despair again talked to his wife, and she said, "Tell your prisoners to
kill themselves, for they will never escape from the dungeon."

So when morning came, the giant went to them in a surly manner, and seeing they still ached
with the stripes he had given them, he told them to poison themselves, for they would never
get away from him in any other way. But they asked the giant to let them go. That made him
so angry that he rushed on them and would have killed them, but he fell into a fit and lost
for a time the use of his hand, wherefore he withdrew and left them as before. Well, towards
evening the giant went down again to the dungeon to see if his prisoners had followed his advice
and poisoned themselves. He found them alive, but because of their wounds and for want of bread
and water they could do little but breathe.

Now at night the giant's wife said: "Take the prisoners into the castle yard to-morrow, and
show them the bones and skulls of those prisoners you have already killed. Tell them that in
a week you will tear them to pieces, as you have torn your other prisoners."

When the morning was come, the giant went to them again and took them into the castle yard,
and showed them all his wife had bidden him.

That night, about midnight, Christian and Hopeful began to pray, and they prayed till dawn of day.

Now just at dawn Christian spoke in sudden amazement. "How foolish we are to lie here, when
we might be free after all.

Christian pulled it out and began to try the dungeon door, and the bolt, as he turned the key,
yielded, and the door flew open, and Christian and Hopeful both came out. Then Christian and
Hopeful went on till they came to the King's highway and so were safe, because they were out
of the giant's grounds. Now when they had got over the stile, they began to wonder what they
should do to keep other pilgrims from falling into the hands of Giant Despair.

Many pilgrims, that came after, read what was written and escaped Giant Despair. They then
went on till they came to the Delectable Mountains. These mountains belonged to the Lord of
the steep hill which Christian had climbed. So they went up these mountains to behold the gardens
and orchards, the vineyards and fountains. There, too, they drank and washed themselves and
ate the fruit of the vineyards. Now there were Shepherds on the mountains, who welcomed them
lovingly and showed them many wonders.

"These," said the Shepherds, "are for an example to others to be careful not to clamber too
high, or to come too near the brink of this mountain." The name of this mountain was Error.

Then the Shepherds took them to the top of another mountain, and the name of it was Caution,
and the Shepherds bid them look afar off. When the pilgrims did this, they saw, as they thought,
several men walking up and down among the tombs that were there.

They answered, "Yes."

"From that stile," said the Shepherds, "there goes a path that leads straight to Doubting Castle,
which is kept by Giant Despair. These men," and the Shepherds pointed to those among the tombs,
"came once on a pilgrimage as you do now. But when they came to the stile, because the right
way was rough, they went over it into the meadow. Here they were taken by Giant Despair and
cast into Doubting Castle. After they had been kept some time in the dungeon, he at last did
put out their eyes. Then he led them among those tombs, and left them to wander there till
this very day."

Then Christian and Hopeful thought of their escape from Doubting Castle, and they looked at
one another with tears in their eyes. But yet they said nothing to the Shepherds. Now I saw
in my dream that the Shepherds brought them to another place, where was a door in the side
of a hill, and they opened the door and bid the pilgrims look in.

Then said Christian, "What means this?"

The Shepherds said, "This is a byway to hell."

And the Shepherds said one to another, "Let us show the pilgrims the gates of the Celestial
City, if they have skill to look through our glass." Yet they thought they saw something like
the gate, and also some of the beauty of the place. When they were about to depart, one of
the Shepherds gave them a note of the way. So I awoke from my dream.

And I slept and dreamed again, and I saw the same two pilgrims going down the mountains and
along the highway. "It is there I am going."

So they followed him in the path that had joined the way, and this path slowly turned, and
at last turned them so far from the City that they wished to go to, that in a little time their
faces were turned away from it. Yet they still followed him. Wherefore there they lay, crying
some time, for they could not get themselves out.

Then said the Shining One, "It is a Flatterer that has clothed himself like an angel of light."
So he rent the net and let the men out. And he said to the pilgrims, "Follow me," and he led
them back to the way which they had left when they followed the Flatterer.

The one with the whip then asked them where they slept last night.

They said, "With the Shepherds on the Delectable Mountains."

He asked them if the Shepherds had not given them a note, telling them about the way. They
answered, "Yes," but they had forgotten to read it. He asked them also if the Shepherds did
not tell them to beware of the Flatterer. They answered, "Yes," but they did not think that
this man who spoke so well could be he. Then I saw in my dream that the Shining One commanded
them to lie down. And he took his whip, and when he had whipped them he said, "As many as I
love I rebuke and punish, be careful therefore and repent."

This done, he bid them go on their way and take good heed to the other directions of the Shepherds.
So they thanked the Shining One for all his kindness, and went gladly along the right way.
Now I saw in my dream that when the pilgrims had got safely over the Enchanted Ground, they
entered a beautiful country where the air was very sweet and pleasant. Every day they heard
continually the singing of birds, and every day they saw the flowers appear in the earth. In
this country the sun shineth night and day, and here they were within sight of the City to
which they went.

The pilgrims then, especially Christian, began to be afraid, and looked this way and that way,
but could find no way by which to escape the river. Then they entered the river, and Christian
began to sink and to cry out to his friend Hopeful, saying, "I sink in deep waters, the billows
go over my head."

But Hopeful cheered Christian, and said he felt the ground under his feet. Yet a great horror
and darkness fell upon Christian, for he thought he should never reach the Celestial City,
and Hopeful had much difficulty to keep his friend's head above water.

The City stood upon a mighty hill, but the pilgrims went up that with ease, talking gladly
to their shining companions, and thus they came up to the gate.

And over the gate there were written in letters of gold "Blessed are they that do the King's
Commandments and may enter in through the gates into the City." And I heard many voices saying,
"Holy, holy, holy is the Lord."

And after that they shut up the gates, and when I had seen this, I wished I myself were within.
Mr. Price was Susan's father. He rented a small farm and was always hard at work. No more honest
man could be found far or near, and he loved his little daughter from the bottom of his big heart.

Mrs. Price was Susan's mother. She was a good woman who was always busy cooking, or cleaning,
or sewing. The bread and cakes made by her were better than those made by any one else in the
village. When she was not doing household work, she earned money by taking in plain needlework.
All who knew Mrs. Price liked her and were sorry she was so far from strong. That no girl had
a better mother than Susan, every one agreed.

John and William were Susan's little brothers. They were quite sure that no other boys in all
the world had such a good sister as theirs.

Our story begins on the evening before the first of May. Now one hundred years ago, Mayday
was looked forward to with glee by all English children living in the country. Early that morning
the lads and lasses of the village, gaily decked with flowers, would go merrily singing from
house to house. In their midst would walk the Queen of the May, or sometimes, seated in a chair
twined round with blossom, she would be carried from door to door by her little companions.
With a wreath of their gayest flowers they would crown her their Queen, and for her would be
woven the fairest garlands. After the May carols were sung, cake, coppers, or small coins would
be given to the boys and girls.

To choose their Queen and to arrange their flowers the children would meet on the last day
of April. This they did in the village where Susan lived, and their meeting-place was in a
corner of a field close by a large pink hawthorn. A shady lane ran past one side of the bush.
On another side a sweetbrier hedge separated it from the garden belonging to an attorney.

This attorney was a very cross man, so cross that the village people were always in fear of
him. Although he had hedged and fenced his garden, it sometimes happened that there would stray
into it a pig, or a dog, or a goat, or a goose belonging to a poor neighbor. Then the attorney
would go to the owner of the stray animal and in a harsh voice demand money to pay for the
damage it had done.

Nor did this cruel man let people walk along the paths through his meadows, although they did
no harm. He blocked up the stiles with stones and prickly shrubs, so that not even a gosling
could squeeze under them nor a giant climb over. Even the village children were afraid to fly
their kites near his fields, lest they should get entangled in his trees or fall on his ground.

Mr. Case was the name of this attorney, and he had one son and a daughter called Barbara.

For long the father paid no attention to the education of his children, for all his time and
thought were given to money-making. Meanwhile Barbara and her brother ran wild with the village
children. But suddenly Mr. Case decided to send his son to a tutor to learn Latin, and to employ
a maid to wait upon Barbara. At the same time he gave strict orders that his children should
no longer play with their old companions.

The village children were not at all sorry when they heard this. Barbara had not been a favorite
among them, for she had always wanted to rule them and to secure for herself the chief part
in their games. When Barbara saw that she was not missed by her old friends she was vexed,
and she became angry when she found that they paid no attention to the grand air with which
she now spoke nor to the fine frocks which she wore.

To one girl Barbara had a special dislike. This was none other than Susan Price, the sweetest-tempered
and busiest lass in the village, and the pride and delight of all who knew her. The farm rented
by Susan's father was near the house in which Mr. Case lived, and Barbara from her window used
to watch Susan at work.

Sometimes the little girl was raking the garden-plots in her neat garden; sometimes she was
weeding the paths; sometimes she was kneeling at her beehive with fresh flowers for her bees,
and sometimes she was in the hen-yard scattering corn among the eager little chickens. In the
evening Barbara often saw her sitting in the summer-house over which sweet honeysuckle crept,
and there, with a clean three-legged pine table before her upon which to lay her work, Susan
would sew busily. Her seams were even and neat, for Mrs. Price had taught her daughter that
what is worth doing is worth doing well.

Both Susan and her mother were great favorites in the village. It was at Mrs. Price's door
that the children began their Mayday rounds, and it was Susan who was usually Queen of the May.

It was now time for the village children to choose their queen. The setting sun was shining
full upon the pink blossoms of the hawthorn when the merry group met to make their plans for
the morrow.

Barbara Case, sulkily walking alone in her father's garden, heard the happy voices and, crouching
behind the hedge that divided her from the other children, she listened to their plans.

"Where is Susan?" were the first words she overheard.

"Yes, where is Susan?" repeated a boy called Philip, stopping short in a tune he was playing
on his pipe: "I want her to sing me this air, I can't remember how it goes."

"And I wish Susan would come, I'm sure," cried Mary, a little girl whose lap was full of primroses.
I wish she would come."

"Nothing can be done without Susan!" cried another child. "She always shows us where the nicest
flowers are to be found in the lanes and meadows."

"Susan must help to weave the garlands," said another.

"Susan must be Queen of the May!" shouted several together.

"Why does she not come?" grumbled Philip.

Rose, who was Susan's special friend, now came forward to remind them that when Susan was late
it was always because she was needed at home.

"Go, Rose, and tell her to make haste," cried the impatient Philip. He wants to rob us of our
playground. I wish he and Bab, or Miss Barbara, as I suppose we must now call her, were a hundred
miles away, I do. Just yesterday she knocked down my ninepins on purpose as she passed with
her gown trailing in the dust."

"Yes," cried Mary, "her gown is always trailing. She does not hold it up nicely like Susan,
and in spite of all her fine clothes she never looks half so neat. Mamma says she hopes I shall
grow like Susan, and so do I. I should not like to be vain like Barbara were I ever so rich."

"Rich or poor," said Philip, "it does not become a girl to be vain, much less bold, as Barbara
was the other day. Then she pulled on her straw hat that had fallen back while she was looking
up at the laburnum, and went her way home, and the gentleman said to me after she was gone,
'Pray, who is that neat, modest girl?' But I wish," cried Philip, interrupting himself, "I
wish Susan would come!"

Barbara, still crouching on the other side of the hedge, heard everything that was said.

Susan was all this time, as her friend Rose had guessed, busy at home. She had tired herself
with baking, and now, alarmed by her husband's strange conduct, she sat down pale and trembling.
The father threw himself into a chair, folded his arms, and gazed into the fire.

Susan was the first who ventured to break the silence. Fondling her father, she tried to coax
him to eat the supper prepared for him. This, however, she could not persuade him to do, but
he said, with a faint smile, that he thought he could eat one of her guinea-hen's eggs. Susan
thanked him, and showed her eagerness to please her dear father by running as fast as she could
to her neat chicken-yard. Alas! the guinea-fowl was not there. It had strayed into the garden
of Mr. Case. She could see it through the paling. Going to the garden-gate, Susan timidly opened
it, and seeing Miss Barbara walk slowly by, she asked if she might come in and take her guinea-fowl.

Barbara, who at that moment was thinking of all she had heard the village children say, started
when she heard Susan's voice.

"Shut the gate," she said crossly, "you have no business in our garden.

"I have only sixpence and you say that won't do," said Susan with a sigh, as she looked at
her favorite which was in the maid's cruel hands, struggling and screaming in vain.

Susan went away feeling very sad.

When Rose, however, learned that her friend's guinea-hen was kept a prisoner by Barbara, she
was hot with indignation, and at once ran back to tell the story to her companions.

II

BAD NEWS

As Susan entered the cottage parlor, Farmer Price drew his chair close to his wife. "You see
there is something amiss with me," he said; "I must tell you what it is." "I am afraid I was
cross when I came in to-night, but I had something to vex me, as you shall hear."

Then the farmer told how, a fortnight before, lots had been drawn in the nearest town, to see
which men there and in the surrounding villages should leave home to be trained as soldiers.
For a hundred years ago it was in this way that men were found to defend their country. Only
if they were under eighteen or above forty years of age could they escape drawing lots.

"Now, as I would be forty in ten days," said the farmer, "I was told just to call myself forty
then and there; but the truth is the truth, and should be spoken at all times, come what may.
And when the lots were drawn, it fell to me among others to leave home to be trained to fight.
I was thinking how unhappy we should be to part, when I heard that if I paid nine guineas to
another man, he would take my place, and I could remain at home with you. I had not the money,
for you know the bad luck we had with the sheep this year, and how they died one after the
other. But I went to Mr. Case and asked him to lend me the money. He said he would if I handed
over to him my lease, for he said, 'If you do not repay me the guineas I shall keep the lease
until you do.'"

"That was a fortnight ago, and to-night Attorney Case tells me he has discovered that, owing
to some mistake in the lease, we may be turned out of the farm at any time. But I've not come
to the worst part yet."

Here Farmer Price stopped short, and his wife and Susan gazed anxiously into his face.

"The truth must be told," he said with a deep sigh, "I must now leave you in three days."

"Must you?" said his wife faintly. "Susan dear, open the window." Susan ran to do as she was
bid, and then returned to her mother's side. The fresh air soon revived the poor woman, and
she begged her husband to go on with his story, and to hide nothing from her.

Farmer Price had no wish to hide anything from those he loved so well. He believed that the
truth should be spoken at all times, but never had he found it so difficult as at this moment.
What had happened was this. Attorney Case had met Farmer Price that evening. The farmer was
coming home, whistling, from a new-plowed field. The Attorney was on horseback, and had just
dined at the Abbey with Sir Arthur Somers. The Abbey had until lately belonged to Sir Arthur's
elder brother, but now that he was dead, Sir Arthur owned the estate.

Attorney Case had looked after the property for the elder brother, and was anxious to be employed
by Sir Arthur. There were many farms on the estate, and it had been part of the Attorney's
work to look after the repairs and to collect the rents. Unfortunately, he had an unpleasant
way of dealing with the farmers, ordering them as he had no right to do, and being harsh with
those who, through misfortune, had not enough money to to pay their rent in full. As the Attorney
met Farmer Price he stopped him, saying, "A word with you, Farmer Price, if you please. Walk
alongside my horse, and listen. You know the field with the pink hawthorn where the village
children play? I am going to add it to my garden. I hear you say it does not belong to me.
What do you mean by that?"

"I mean what I say," said Price; "the field is not yours." So angry was the Attorney on hearing
this, that he at once made up his mind to hurt the farmer as much as he could.

"My good man," he said, "you will remember that a fortnight ago I lent you nine guineas. To-morrow
morning you must return them to me."

"Those guineas," replied the farmer, "I paid, as you know, to the man who said he would go
instead of me to be trained as a soldier. But he has not yet gone, and I can still get the
guineas back from him and go myself to be trained."

The Attorney was not prepared for this answer. "I do not want to drive you to that," he said,
pretending to be kind. "Now about the field--you do not want to add it to the farm, do you?"

"Certainly not, for it is not mine."

"Then why object to my having it?"

"Because it is not yours. The children who play there have the right. It belongs to the village.
Truth is truth."

"And a debt is a debt," shouted the angry Attorney, "and must be paid. Bring me my nine guineas!"

With a heavy heart Farmer Price walked on. He passed the door of his cottage and went in search
of the man to whom he had paid the money. The man was quite willing to return it, as there
were many others, he said, who would be willing to give him the same sum or more for his services.
The moment Price got the money he took it straight to Mr. Case, laid it on his desk and was
going away, when the Attorney called out, "Not so fast, you have forgotten your lease."

"Ah yes! my lease, I had forgotten it. Let me have it."

"Pardon me," said the Attorney with a cruel smile, "but I cannot let you have it. On reading
it over I find that owing to a mistake you may be turned out of the farm at any time. I must
keep it to show to Sir Arthur. I have no doubt he will want me to look after things for him
as I did for his brother. Now perhaps you wish you had quietly let me add the field to my garden."

Farmer Price said nothing, but dragged himself home a sad man.

III

SUSAN'S GUINEA-FOWL

When Susan had heard her father's story, she quite forgot the loss of her guinea-hen, and thought
only of her poor mother who, try as she might, could not bear the bad news. In the middle of
the night Susan was roused, as Mrs. Price had become ill, and it was not until early morning
that the poor woman fell asleep, her daughter's hand locked fast in hers. Susan remained sitting
by the bedside, breathing quietly. Then seeing the candle burn low, she gently withdrew her
hand, and on tiptoe went to put out the light, lest the unpleasant smell should wake her mother.
All was silent. The gray light of dawn stole into the little room; the sun rose slowly, and
Susan peered through the small panes of the lattice window at the glorious sight. A few birds
began to chirp, and as the little girl listened to them, her mother started and spoke in her
sleep. Susan quickly hung up a white apron before the window to keep out the light, and at
the same moment she heard in the distance the voices of the village children singing their
Mayday songs. Soon she could see them, Philip leading the way playing upon his pipe and tabor,
the others following with nosegays and garlands in their hands. They were coming towards the
cottage.

"Thank you," said Susan, "but my mother is ill. I can't leave her, you know." Mrs. Price, when
she awoke, felt much better, but slowly there came back to her memory the sad news she had
heard the evening before. She asked herself if it could have been a dream, but no, it was all
too true. She could recall her husband's look as he had said, "I must leave you in three days."
Then suddenly she roused herself. "Why! he'll want, he'll want a hundred things," she said.
"I must get his linen ready for him. I'm afraid it's very late. Susan's loving help was never
more wanted.

"Better, thank you." Now we are a match for Miss Barbara. You won't like to leave home, so
I'll go to her, and you shall see your guinea-hen in ten minutes."

Rose hurried away, filled with joy at the thought that soon she would return to Susan with
her lost bird.

Miss Barbara's maid, Betty, was the first person she saw on reaching the Attorney's house.
Rose said she must see Barbara and was shown into a parlor where the young lady sat reading a book.

"How you startled me! Is it only you?" she said, looking up and seeing no one but the maid.
Then, as she caught sight of Rose, she went on, "You should have said I was not at home. Pray,
my good girl, what do you want?" she said, turning to Rose. "Is it to borrow or to beg that
you are here?"

"The person from whom I come does not wish either to borrow or to beg, but to pay for what
she asks," answered Rose. Then opening her well-filled purse, she held out to Barbara a bright
shilling, saying, "Now please be so good as to give me Susan's guinea-hen."

"You may keep your shilling," replied Barbara. "It would have been enough if it had been paid
yesterday when I asked for it, but I told Susan that as it was not paid then I should keep
the hen, and I shall. You may go back and tell her so."

While Barbara spoke she had been looking into the open purse in Rose's hand. She thought she
could count at least ten shillings. Could she not manage to get at least five of them for the
guinea-hen, she wondered?

Rose little guessed what was going on in Barbara's mind, and exclaimed angrily, "We must have
Susan's favorite hen, whatever it costs. If one shilling won't do, take two. If two won't do,
take three," and she flung the coins one after the other on the table.

"Three won't do," said Barbara.

"Then take four."

Barbara shook her head.

A fifth shilling was offered, but Barbara, seeing that she had the game in her own hands, was
silent.

Then Rose threw down shilling after shilling, till twelve bright pieces lay on the table, and
her purse was empty.

"Now you may take the guinea-hen," said Barbara.

Rose pushed the money towards the greedy girl, but at the same moment remembered that it had
not belonged to herself alone. At once she seized the silver coins, and saying that she must
first see if the friends with whom she shared them were willing to part with them, she ran off.

When the children heard Rose's story, they were amazed, that even Barbara could be so mean,
but they all agreed that at any cost the guinea-fowl must be set free. In a body they went
to Susan and told her so, at the same time handing her the purse. Then they ran off without
waiting to be thanked. Rose only stayed behind. Susan knew that she must accept the present
gladly, just as she would give one gladly. She was much touched by the kindness of her friends,
but she took the purse as simply as she would have given it.

"This, to be sure, will go but a little way," thought Susan; "but still it may be of some use."
I assure you I am clever with my needle now--try me."

Susan told her friend that she would most gladly accept her help, but that she had finished
all the needlework that was wanted at present. Mrs. Price's last baking had failed for want
of good yeast. She was not now strong enough to attempt another herself, and when the brewer's
boy came to tell her that he had some fine fresh yeast, she thanked him, but sighed and said
she feared it would be of little use to her. She thinks no more of her being handsome than
I do myself; yet she has as proper a respect for herself, ma'am, as you have; and I always
see her neat, and she is always with her mother, or fit people, as a girl should be. As for
her mother, she dotes upon her, as well she may; for I should myself if I had half such a daughter,
ma'am; and then she has two little brothers, and she's as good to them and, my boy Philip says,
taught them to read more than the school-mistress did; but I beg your pardon, ma'am, I cannot
stop myself when I once begin to talk of Susan."

"You have really said enough to make me wish to see her," said her mistress. "Pray send for
her now; we can see her before we go out to walk."

The kind housekeeper gladly sent off her boy Philip for Susan, who was never so untidy that
she could not come at once when sent for. She had been very busy, but orderly people can be
busy and neat at the same time. Putting on her usual straw hat, she set out for the Abbey.
On the way she overtook Rose's mother, who was going there too with a basket of fresh muslin.
When Susan reached the Abbey, her simple dress and manners and the good sense with which she
answered the questions put to her, pleased the ladies greatly. They saw that the housekeeper
had not spoken too highly of the farmer's daughter.

These two ladies were the sisters of Sir Arthur Somers. They were kind and wise; kind in wishing
to spread happiness among their poor neighbors, and wise in wishing these people to be happy
in their own way. They did not wish to manage them, but only to help them. As Sir Arthur was
always willing to aid his sisters, it seemed as if they would prove a blessing in in the village
near which they had come to live. When Susan took leave of the ladies, she was told they would
call at her home that evening at six o'clock. Such a grand event as Susan's visit to the Abbey
soon became known to Barbara Case and her maid, and together they watched for her return.

"There she is! She has just gone into her garden," cried Bab; "we'll run in at once and hear
all about it."

Susan was gathering some marigolds and parsley for her mother's soup. "Well, Susan, and how
are things going with you to-day?" asked Barbara.

"My mother is rather better, she says; thank you, ma'am."

"'Ma'am, how polite we have grown all of a sudden!" said Bab, winking at her maid. "One can
see you have been in good company. Come, tell us all about it."

"Did you see the ladies themselves," asked Betty, "or only the housekeeper?"

"What room were you in?" went on Bab. "Did you see Miss Somers or Sir Arthur?"

"Miss Somers," replied Susan.

"Betty, she saw Miss Somers! I must hear about it. Susan, stop gathering those things, and
have a chat with us."

"I can't indeed, Miss Barbara, for my mother wants her soup, and I am in a hurry." And Susan
ran home.

"Would you believe it, her head is full of soup now?" said Bab to her maid. "She seems to think
nothing of her visit to the Abbey. My papa may well call her Simple Susan. But simple or not
I mean to get what I want out of her. Maybe when she has settled the grand matter of the soup,
she'll be able to speak. I'll step in and ask to see her mother. That will put her in a good
humor in a trice."

Barbara went to the cottage and found Susan standing over a pot on the fire. "Is the soup ready?"
she asked. "I'll wait till you take it in to your mother and go in with you. I want to ask
her how she is, myself."

"Sit down then, miss," said Susan, "I have put in the parsley, so the soup is nearly ready."

Barbara sat down and plied Susan with questions. How was Miss Somers dressed? Were the sisters
dressed alike? What were they having for dinner at the Abbey? Above all, what could Miss Somers
mean by saying she would call at Farmer Price's cottage at six o'clock that evening? "What
do you think she could mean?" asked Barbara.

"What she said," replied Susan, "that she would be here at six o'clock."

"That's plain enough," said Barbara, "but what else do you think she meant? People, you know,
often mean more or less than they say."

"They do," answered Susan, with a smile that made Barbara guess of whom she was thinking.

But Bab did not mean Susan to know that she guessed, so she said, "I suppose you think that
Miss Somers meant more than she said?"

"I was not thinking of Miss Somers when I said what I did," replied Susan.

There was a pause, and then Bab remarked, "How nice the soup looks!"

Susan had poured it into a basin, and as she dropped over it the bright yellow marigold, it
looked very tempting. She tasted it and added a little salt; tasted it again, and added a little
more. Then she thought it was just as her mother liked it.

"Oh, I must taste it!" said Bab, seizing the basin greedily.

"Won't you take a spoon?" said Susan, trembling as she saw the big mouthfuls Barbara took with
a loud noise.

"Take a spoon, indeed!" exclaimed Bab. "How dare you, how dare you speak so to me? 'Take a
spoon, pig!' was what you meant to say! I'll never enter your cottage again!" And she flounced
out of the house.

Susan stood still, amazed at the beginning of Barbara's speech, but her last words explained
the sudden outburst. Susan, as she grew up, forgot the childish saying, but Barbara remembered
it, and it was this that she thought was in Susan's mind when she asked her to take a spoon.

"Indeed, miss," said Betty, when she found Barbara in a passion upon her return from the cottage,
"indeed I wonder you set your foot within the door. Your own papa has been at the Abbey all
morning, and you can hear all you wish to know from him."

Barbara at once ran to her father's parlor, but saw at a glance that he was in no mood to answer
questions. Instead of leaving him alone, she did all in her power to find out why he had been
at the Abbey, and what he had seen and heard there. And when she found that her father would
tell her nothing, she ran back to her maid, saying, "Papa is so cross! I cannot put up with him."

V

SUSAN'S PET LAMB

It is true that Attorney Case was not in a happy mood. His visit to the Abbey had made him
feel sure that Sir Arthur and he would not agree about the treatment of the farmers who lived
on the estate. One matter they had talked about was Sir Arthur's wish to enlarge his grounds
and make a drive round them. A map of the estate lay upon the table and they looked at it together.

"Ah! but I see this new road for the drive would run through Farmer Price's garden," said Sir
Arthur. "That would never do."

"It need not trouble you," said Attorney Case, "you may do as you like with Price's land."

"How so?" asked Sir Arthur. "His lease will not be out for ten years, I believe."

"True, that would have been the case had there not been a mistake in it. I have the lease and
can show you." The heartless man then went on to explain to Sir Arthur what the mistake was.

Sir Arthur remained silent.

"Oh! I see," said the Attorney. "You do not wish to annoy Farmer Price. But just put the matter
into my hands and I will manage it for you."

"You seem to forget that to take the farm out of this poor man's hands would be to ruin him,"
replied Sir Arthur, quietly.

"Indeed," said the wicked Attorney, "indeed I should be sorry for that, if it were not that
Farmer Price is such an unruly, stubborn man."

"An unruly man, is he? If that be so, the sooner he leaves the place the better. When you go
home, you will be good enough to send me the lease that I may, for myself, see the mistake."

Attorney Case got up to go. But before he went, he thought he must try to find out if Sir Arthur
was going to employ him to look after the estate, that is, if he was to be the agent. "I will
not trouble you about this lease, Sir Arthur," he said, "but will hand it to your agent, if
you will inform me who is to have that post."

"I mean to be my own agent," answered Sir Arthur, "and will myself look after the happiness
of the people among whom I have come to live."

It was the surprise of this reply that had sent Attorney Case home so cross that Barbara had
said to Betty she could not put up with him.

When his daughter had left him atone, the Attorney walked up and down the room deep in thought.
"At any rate," he said to himself at last, "if Sir Arthur means to manage the estate himself
in summer, he at least will need an agent in winter. I must try to get the post." And he still
walked up and down, trying to think of some plan by which he would find favor at the Abbey.
Now that morning he had heard the housekeeper at the Abbey ask the servants if any lamb were
to be had in the village, as Sir Arthur would like to have it one day soon for dinner.

Knowing that he himself treated those farmers best who from time to time gave him presents,
Attorney Case thought that if he sent a gift to Sir Arthur, it might help him to get what he
wished.

No sooner had the idea struck him than the Attorney went to the kitchen. Standing at the door
was a shepherd-boy. Barbara, too, was there.

"Do you know of a nice fat lamb?" the Attorney asked the lad.

Before the shepherd-boy could answer, Barbara exclaimed, "I know of one. Susan Price has a
pet lamb that is as fat as fat can be."

At once Attorney Case walked over to Farmer Price's cottage.

"What if you could help it, Susan?" he said.

Susan clasped her hands in silence.

"You can help it, Susan." She started up.

"More silly you," said he.

"She feeds out of my hand, she follows me about; I have always taken care of her; my mother
gave her to me."

"I shall not forget it," said Susan, steadily.

As soon, however, as the cruel man turned his back and left the house, Susan sat down, and
hid her face in her hands. She was soon roused by the sound of her mother's feeble voice calling
her from the inner room where she lay. Susan went in.

"Are you there, love? "How do you know? Who told you so? Tell me all quick!" The next moment
she was called out of the room, for a messenger had come from the Abbey for the bread-bill.
Susan always made out the bills, for although she had not had many writing-lessons, she had
taken great pains to learn, and wrote in a neat, clear hand. It is true she was in no mood
to write or add now, but the work must be done. Having carefully ruled lines for the pounds,
shillings and pence, she made out the bill and gave it to the boy who waited for it. Then she
said to herself she would make out the other bills, for many of the people in the village had
bought a few loaves and rolls of her making. "And when these are done, I may go down to the
meadow to take leave of my poor lamb."

But Susan could not find her slate, and when she did find it many of the figures were blurred,
for Barbara had sat upon it. And then the numbers seemed to dance before her, and each time
that she added, the answer was different. She went over and over the sums until her head ached.
The table was covered with little square bits of paper on which she had written the bills when
her father came in, holding in his hand an account.

"Look at this, Susan!" he said, handing it to her. "How could you be so careless, child? What
have you been thinking about to let a bill like that go to the Abbey? Luckily, I met the messenger
and asked to see how much it was. Look at it."

Susan looked and blushed. Instead of "loaves" she had written "lambs." She altered the mistake
and handed the bill to her father. He, meantime, was looking at the papers lying on the table.

"What are all these, child?" he asked.

"Some of them were wrong, and I wrote them out again."

"Some of them! All of them as far as I can see," said her father rather angrily, pointing to
the papers.

Susan read the bills. Most of them were for lambs instead of for loaves or rolls. Her thoughts
had indeed been running upon the pet she was to part with so soon.

Once more she wrote the bills, and her father, who was struck by the patient way she set to
work, said he would himself collect the money. He would be proud to be able to say to the neighbors
that it was all earned by his own little daughter. Susan heard him sigh as he passed the knapsack
she had packed for him, but she thought she would keep the pleasure of telling him of his week's
leave until he came home. He had said he would have supper in her mother's room. She would
tell the good news then. "How delighted he will be when he hears," she said to herself, "but
I know he will be sorry too for poor Daisy."

Susan thought she would now have time to run down to the meadow by the river-side to see her
favorite, but just as she had tied on her straw hat the clock struck four. This was the hour
at which she always went to fetch her brothers from the school near the village. So, as she
knew that the little boys would be sorry if she were late, she put off her visit to the lamb
and went at once to meet them.

VI

THE BLIND HARPER

The dame-school, which was about a mile from the village, was a long, low house with a thatched
roof. It was sheltered by a few old oaks, under which the grandparents and great-grandparents
of the children now at school had played long ago. The play-green sloped down from the front
of the school, and was enclosed by a rough paling. The children obeyed and loved the dame who
taught them, for she was ever quick to praise them when they did well, and to give them all
the pleasure she could. Susan had been taught by her, and the dame often told her little pupils
that they must try to be like her, wise and modest, gentle and kind.

Susan always liked to hear of all that made others happy, but she had to tell the children
that if they all spoke at once she would not be able to hear what any of them said. The children
at once became silent, and looked round to see whence the sound came. Susan pointed to the
great oak-tree, and they saw, sitting under its shade, an old man playing upon his harp. The
children all drew near quietly, for the music was solemn; but as the harper heard little footsteps
coming towards him, he played one of his more lively tunes. The merry troop pressed nearer
and nearer to the old man.

All this was said while the harper tuned his harp. When he once more began to play, not a word
was spoken, but every now and again there was a cry of delight. The old man then let the children
name the airs they would like best to hear. Each, time Susan spoke, he turned his face quickly
to where she stood, and played the tune she asked for over and over again.

"I am blind," he said, "and cannot see your faces, but I can tell something about each of you
by your voices."

"Can you indeed?" cried Susan's little brother William, who was now standing between the old
man's knees. "It was my sister Susan who spoke last. Can you tell us something about her?"

"That I can, I think," said the harper, lifting the little boy on his knee. "Your sister Susan
is good-natured."

William clapped his hands.

"And good-tempered."

"Right," said little William, clapping louder than before.

"Oh, yes," said William, "it's all true; but how did you find out she was fond of me?"

"That is such a hard question," said the harper, "that I must take time to think." "Play 'Bumper
Squire Jones.'"

The old man, though he did not seem quite pleased with the way in which he was asked, played
"Bumper Squire Jones." Several tunes were afterwards named by the same rough voice.

The little children shrunk back shyly, as they looked at the bold boy. He was the son of Attorney
Case, and as his father had not cured his temper when he was a child, it became worse and worse
as he grew up. All who were younger and weaker than himself were afraid of him and disliked
him. When the old harper was so tired that he could play no more, a lad who usually carried
his harp for him came up, and held his master's hat to those around, saying, "Will you please
remember us?" The children readily gave their halfpence to this poor, good-natured man, who
had taken so much pains to amuse them. It pleased them better even than to give them to the
gingerbread-woman, whose stall they loved to visit. The hat was held to the Attorney's son
before he chose to see it. At last he put his hand into his pocket and pulled out a shilling.

"I am afraid, then, you'll get no other," said young Case, with a rude laugh.

"It never will do, sir, look at it yourself; the edges are all yellow. You can see the copper
through it quite plain. Sir, nobody will take it from us."

"I have nothing to do with that," said the rude boy, pushing away his hand. "You may pass it,
you know, as well as I do, if you look sharp. You have taken it from me, and I shan't take
it back again, I can tell you."

A whisper of "that's very unjust," was heard.

"Who says it's unjust?" cried the Attorney's son sternly, looking down upon his judges.

He was a quiet, timid boy, and young Case fancied that he would be afraid to say what he thought.
However, after turning the shilling round several times, the butcher's lad said that so far
as he could tell, although he would not like to be quite sure of it, the coin was not a good
one. Then, seeing the Attorney's son scowl angrily at him, he turned to Susan saying that she
knew more than he did about money, as so much passed through her hands in payment of the bread
she made.

"I'll leave it to her," said the old harper. "If she says the shilling is good, we will keep it."

The coin was then handed to Susan, who had not yet spoken, but now that she was called upon
she did not shrink from telling the truth. In a gentle but firm tone she said, "I think the
shilling is a bad one."

"There's another then," cried the Attorney's son; "I have plenty of shillings and sixpences.
They are nothing to me." And he walked away.

The children now all started for their homes, and the old harper begged that Susan would show
him the way to the village, if she were going there. The lad took up the harp and little William
led the old man by the hand, while John ran on before to gather buttercups in the meadows.
When they reached a little brook which they must cross by a narrow plank, Susan was afraid
to leave the harper to the care of his little guide, so she herself took his hand and led him
safely to the other side.

Soon they reached the road, and Susan told the boy who carried his master's harp that he could
not now lose his way. She then said good-by to the harper, adding that she and her brothers
must take the short path across the fields, which would not be so pleasant for him because
of the stiles.

"I am afraid Miss Somers will be waiting," said Susan to to her brothers as they ran along
together. "You know she said she would call at six o'clock, and I am sure by the length of
our shadows that it is getting late."

"Because," went on John, "she would not refuse to let us hear a blind man play on the harp.

When the ladies left the cottage, they took Susan with them through the village.

"I fancy we shall find what we want here," said Miss Somers, stopping before a shop-window
where ribbons of all colors were displayed, and where lace collars, glass buttons and sheets
of pins were laid out in order. They went in, and on the shelves behind the counter saw gay,
neat linens and calicoes.

"Now, Susan, choose yourself a gown," said Miss Somers. "Because you are a busy girl and behave
well, we wish others to see that such is the conduct we approve."

The shopkeeper was the father of Susan's friend, Rose. He stretched his arm to the highest
shelf, then dived into drawers beneath the counter, sparing no pains to show the best goods
to his customers.

Susan did not show the interest that might have been expected. But Susan felt that this was
a great deal of money to spend upon a frock for herself, and yet she did not know how to ask
if she might keep it for a better purpose. Although Susan said nothing, Miss Somers read in
her face that she was perplexed. "She does not like any of these things," whispered the lady
to her sister.

"She seems to be thinking of something else," was the low reply.

"If you do not fancy any of these calicoes," said the shopkeeper to Susan, "we shall have a
larger choice soon."

"Oh," answered Susan, with a smile, and a blush, "these are all too good for me, but--"

"But what, Susan?" asked Miss Somers. "Tell us what is passing in your little mind."

Susan said nothing.

"Well then, it does not matter. You do not know us very well yet. When you do, you will not,
I am sure, be afraid to be frank. Put the guinea in your pocket and make what use of it you
please. From what we know and from what we have heard of you, we are sure you will make a good
use of it." Good night, Susan, we shall soon come again to your neat cottage."

Susan courtesied and looked gratefully at the ladies, but did not speak. She wished to say,
"I cannot explain to you here, with people around, what I want to do with my guinea, but when
you come to our cottage you shall know all."

After Susan had left, Miss Somers turned to the obliging shopkeeper who was folding up all
the goods he had opened. "You have had a great deal of trouble," she said, "and as Susan will
not choose a gown for herself, I must find one for her," and she chose the prettiest.

While the man rolled up the parcel, Miss Somers asked him many questions about Susan, and he
was only too glad to be able to tell what he knew about the good girl.

"No later than last May morning," he said, "Susan acted as it will please you to hear. She
was to have been Queen of the May, which among the children in our village is a thing a good
deal thought of. But Susan's mother was ill, and Susan, after being up with her all night,
would not go out in the morning, even when they brought the crown to her. She put it upon my
daughter Rose's head with her own hands, and to be sure Rose loves her as well as if she were
her own sister. If I praise Susan it is not that I am any relation of the Prices, but just
that I wish her well, as does every one that knows her. I'll send the parcel up to the Abbey,
shall I, ma'am?"

"If you please," said Miss Somers, "and as soon as your new goods come in, let us know. You
will, I hope, find us good customers and well-wishers," she added, with a smile, "for those
who wish others well surely deserve to have well-wishers themselves."

But to return to Susan. When she left the shop she carefully put the bright guinea into the
purse with the twelve shillings her little friends had given her on Mayday. She next added,
as far as she could remember them, the bills for bread that were owing to her, and found they
came to about thirty-eight shillings. Then she hoped that by some means or other she might,
during the week her father was to remain at home, make up the nine guineas that would enable
him to stay with them altogether. "If that could but be," she said to herself, "how happy it
would make my mother! She wanted to go there alone and take leave of her lamb.

"Yours!" cried the children with terror; "and will you kill it?"

"No, that is what the butcher will do."

The little boys now burst into loud cries. The boy remembered Susan's firmness about the shilling,
for it had saved him a beating. He went at once to his father to beg him to spare the lamb.
But I've a plan in my head and I'm going straightway to Attorney Case. But he's a hard man,
so we'll say nothing to the boys, lest nothing comes of it. Come, lads," he went on, turning
to the crowd of children, "it is time you were going your ways home. Turn the lamb in here,
John, into the paddock for the night." The butcher then went to the Attorney.

"If it's a good, fat, tender lamb you want for Sir Arthur," he said, "I could let you have
one as good or better than Susan's and fit to eat to-morrow."

As Mr. Case wished to give the present to Sir Arthur as soon as he could, he said he would
not wait for Susan's lamb, but would take the one offered by the butcher. Rose was at Farmer
Price's cottage that evening, and was to have the pleasure of hearing Susan tell her father
the good news that he might stay at home for one week longer. Mrs. Price was feeling better
and said that she would sit up to supper in her wicker armchair. As Susan began to get ready
the meal, little William, who was standing at the house-door watching for his father's return,
called out suddenly, "Susan, why here is our old man!"

"Yes," said the blind harper, "I have found my way to you. "Many roofs that are twice as high
do not shelter folk so kind," he said. It was some little time before he could believe that
what he heard was true; but the smiles of his wife, the noisy joy of his little boys, and the
delight that shone in Susan's face at last convinced him that he was not in a dream.

"How, I can't make out, except by the baking," said her proud mother. "Hey, Susan, is this
your first baking?"

Susan did not like to tell the story of her guinea-hen, of the gown, and of her poor lamb.
Part of this would seem as if she were speaking of her own good deeds, and part of it she did
not like to remember.

VIII

BARBARA VISITS THE ABBEY

The old blind man had come from the mountains of Wales to try to gain a prize of ten guineas.
This prize was to be awarded to the harper who should play the best at a large town about five
miles from the village where Susan lived. In the evening, after the prize-giving was over,
there was to be a ball in the town, so the events of the day were looked forward to by many
around. Barbara was one of those who grew more and more excited as the time for the prize-giving
and ball drew near. She longed to be asked to go there by some of the rich neighbors who could
drive her in their carriage. So how pleased she was when, on the evening that her father and
the butcher were talking about Susan's lamb, a servant in livery from the Abbey left a note
for Mr. and Miss Barbara Case! It was to invite them to dinner and tea at the Abbey next day.

"Now they will find out," cried Bab, "that I am indeed a genteel person, and they will wish
to take me to the ball. At any rate, I shall do my best to be asked."

"To be sure," said Betty, "a lady who would visit Susan Price might well be glad to take you
in her carriage."

"Then pray, Betty, do not forget to send to town first thing to-morrow for my new bonnet. Without
that the ladies of the Abbey will think nothing of me. And I must coax Papa to buy me a new
gown for the ball. I shall look well at all the ladies' dresses at the Abbey to-morrow and
find out the fashion. And Betty, I have thought of a charming present to take Miss Somers.
I shall give her Susan's guinea-hen. It's of no use to me, so carry it up early in the morning
to the Abbey, with my compliments."

Feeling quite sure that her bonnet and the guinea-fowl would make Miss Somers think well of
her, Barbara paid her first visit to the Abbey. She expected to see wonders, but when she was
shown into the room where Miss Somers and other ladies were sitting, simply dressed, and with
work, books and drawings on the table before them, she was surprised and vexed. There was nothing
grand to be seen anywhere.

When Miss Somers tried to find out what would interest her, and talked of walks, and flowers
and gardens, Miss Barbara was offended. "I will show them," she said to herself, "that I can
talk of other things." So in a grand tone she spoke of what she did not understand, until her
mistaken airs of gentility made the ladies of the Abbey feel first amused and then ashamed.
One by one the ladies left the room, and when Miss Somers went to change her dress for dinner,
Barbara was left alone with some pretty drawings to amuse her. But the silly girl paid no heed
to these. She could think only of the ball. Suddenly she remembered that nothing had been said
about the guinea-hen. The truth was that Betty, in the hurry of dressing Barbara for her visit
to the Abbey, had forgotten the bird, but it arrived just as Miss Somers was dressing. The
housekeeper went to her mistress's room to say it had come. The woman came close up to the
dressing-table, and said, "I never like to speak till I'm sure, ma'am, and I'm not quite sure
in this case, ma'am, but still I think it right to tell you what crossed my mind about this
same guinea-hen, ma'am, and you can ask about it or do as you feel best, ma'am. Some time ago
we had guinea-fowls of our own, and not knowing they were going to die as they have done, ma'am,
I made bold to give a couple last Christmas to Susan Price, and very proud of them she was,
ma'am, and I'm sure would never have parted with the hen of her own will. But if my eyes don't
deceive me, ma'am, this guinea-hen that Miss Barbara sends to you with her compliments is the
same that I gave to Susan. How Miss Barbara came by it, I can't tell, ma'am, but if my boy
Philip was at home, he might know, for he's often at Farmer Price's cottage. If you wish it,
ma'am, I'll ask him when he comes home to-night."

"I think the best way will be for me to ask Miss Case herself about it this evening," said
Miss Somers.

Among other things talked of at table was a carving-knife that Sir Arthur had made for his
sister. From this the conversation passed to carving. "Now is my chance to find out about my
present," thought the Attorney. "Pray, may I ask," he said to Sir Arthur, "how you carve a
fore quarter of lamb?"

Sir Arthur at once saw what the Attorney wanted to hear. Having answered his question, he went
on to thank him for the present he had offered, but added, "I am sorry I cannot accept it,
as it is my rule never to accept gifts from my neighbors. The reason is that our poor tenants
cannot show their good will in this way, as they have little or nothing to offer."

Attorney Case listened with surprise. He was annoyed and angry, for he did not understand Sir
Arthur's just mind and kind heart. After the ladies left the dining-room and were walking up
and down the large hall, one of them remarked that it would be a charming place for music.
Barbara, who like her father always seized any chance of turning the conversation as best pleased
herself, said what a fine instrument was the harp. Then she spoke of the prize-giving to the
harpers and of the ball that was to follow. "I know a good deal about the ball," she said,
"because a lady in the town where it is to be held offered to take me with her, but although
she has a carriage, Papa did not like to let her send it so far." At this point Barbara fixed
her eyes on Miss Somers, that she might, if possible, read her thoughts, but as the lady was
at that moment letting down the veil of her hat, her face was not seen.

"Shall we go for a little walk before tea?" said Miss Somers to the other ladies. "I have a
pretty guinea-hen to show you." Barbara now felt hopeful, and when even among the pheasants
and peacocks the guinea-hen was much admired, she was sure that Miss Somers must indeed be
proud to accept her gift.

At this moment Philip came running by on an errand for his mother. As his eye fell upon the
guinea-hen, he exclaimed before he knew, "Why, that is Susan's guinea-hen!"

"What is the matter, Philip?" asked Miss Somers in a soothing voice, but Philip was not in
the mood to be soothed.

"Why, ma'am, may I speak out?" he asked, and without waiting for leave he gave a full account
of the loss of Susan's guinea-fowl, of Rose's visit to Barbara, and of Barbara's greedy and
cruel conduct.

Barbara denied all that Philip said, and told quite another tale. When she could find no more
to say she blushed deeply, for she saw that her story was not believed. One might have thought
she was covered with shame, had it not been that the moment Philip was out of sight, she exclaimed,
"I am sure I wish I had never seen this wretched guinea-hen! It is all Susan's fault for letting
it stray into our garden."

Barbara was too angry to notice that she was admitting the truth of Philip's story.

"Perhaps," said Miss Somers, "Susan will be more careful now that she has had so hard a lesson.
Shall we see? Philip will, I am sure, carry the guinea-hen back to her, if we wish it."

"If you please, ma'am," said Barbara sulkily.

So the guinea-hen was given to Philip, who set off with joy and was soon in sight of Farmer
Price's cottage.

IX

A SURPRISE FOR SUSAN

When Philip came to the door he stopped suddenly, for the idea struck him that it would give
Rose great pleasure to carry the guinea-fowl to Susan. So he ran into the village.

As they passed the butcher's house, his boy came out. They told him where they were going.

"Let me come with you, let me come with you," he said. "But wait one moment, for my father
has something to say to you," and he darted into the house. The children waited. In a few moments
they heard the bleating of a lamb, and soon they saw it being gently led by the butcher from
the paddock.

"It is Daisy!" exclaimed Rose.

"It is Daisy!" they all shouted with joy, "Susan's lamb! Susan's lamb!" It's true the lamb
did not know what was before it, but poor Susan did, and to wring her gentle heart was what
I call cruel. But at any rate, here it is, safe and sound now. I'd have taken it to her sooner,
but was off early this morning to the fair, and am but just come back. Daisy, though, was as
well off in my paddock as in the field by the water-side."

The troop of happy children went on their way with the guinea-fowl and the lamb. As they passed
the shop where Susan had been shown the pretty calicoes, the shopkeeper, who, you remember,
was Rose's father, came out. When he saw the lamb, and learned whose it was and heard its story,
he gave the children some pieces of colored ribbon, with which Rose decorated Susan's favorite.

The children now once more moved on, led by Philip, who played joyfully upon his pipe and tabor.
"Now, if my father was not to go away from us next week, and if my mother were quite strong,
I should be the happiest person in the world." As Susan finished speaking, a voice behind the
listening crowd cried, in a rough tone, "Let us pass, if you please; you have no right to block
the road." Even her new bonnet, in which she had expected to be so much admired, now only served
to hide her blushing face.

"Nor I either, I hope," said Susan, looking round upon her companions with a most loving smile:
"I hope, while I live, I shall never forget your goodness to me last Mayday. Now that I've
my pretty guinea-hen safe once more, I should think of returning your money."

"No! no! no!" was the cry, "we don't want the money--keep it--keep it--you want it for your
father."

"Well," said Susan, "I am not too proud to accept it. I will keep your money for my father.
Perhaps some time or other I may be able to earn----"

"Oh," said Philip, "don't let us talk of earning; don't let her talk to us of money now; she
hasn't had time hardly to look at poor Daisy and her guinea-hen. Come, we had better go and
let her have them all to herself."

The children moved away, but Philip himself was the very last to stir from the garden-gate.
He stayed, first, to tell Susan that it was Rose who tied the ribbons on Daisy's head. Then
he stayed a little longer to let her hear the story of the guinea-fowl, and to tell her who
it was that brought the hen home from the Abbey.

As Philip finished speaking, Susan was already feeding her long-lost favorite.

When this was done, which it certainly never could have been had Philip not held the hen for
Susan, he remembered his mother had given him a message for Mrs. Price. This led to another
quarter of an hour's delay, for Philip had the whole story of the guinea-hen to tell over again
to Mrs. Price, and as the farmer came in while it was going on, it was only polite to begin
at the beginning once more. Farmer Price was so pleased to see Susan happy again with her two
favorites, that he said he must himself see Daisy fed, and Philip found that he was wanted
to hold the jug of milk, from which Susan's father now filled the pan for Daisy. When Philip
at last left the cottage, Bab and her maid Betty were staring out of the window as usual.

X

BARBARA'S ACCIDENT

As the day went on, Miss Barbara became more and more annoyed that her meanness had been found
out, but she had no wish to cure herself of the fault. The ball was still her first thought.

"Well," she said to Betty, "you have heard how things have turned out, but if Miss Somers does
not ask me to go with, her, I think I know some one else who will."

Now, some officers were quartered at the town where the ball was to be held. And because they
had got into trouble with a tradesman there, out of which Mr. Case had undertaken to help them,
they sometimes invited the Attorney to mess. The officers thought that if they showed some
attention to Mr. Case, he would not charge them so much for his help. One of them even asked
his wife to take, sometimes, a little notice of Miss Barbara. The name of this officer's wife
was Mrs. Strathspey. It was of Mrs. Strathspey that Barbara was thinking when she said to Betty
that if Miss Somers did not take her to the ball, she thought she knew of some one else who would.

"Mrs. Strathspey and the officers are to breakfast here to-morrow," said Bab. "One of them
dined at the Abbey to-day and he said they would all come.

"Susan," she said to the poor girl whom she had done everything in her power to hurt, "I must
beg a little more honey from you for Mrs. Strathspey's breakfast. You know, at a great time
such as this, we should help one another."

"To be sure we should," added Betty.

Susan, though she was generous, was not weak; she was willing to give to those she loved, but
would not let anything be taken from her or coaxed out of her by those whom she could not respect.
She answered that she was sorry she had no more honey to spare.

Barbara grew angry. "You need not think of balls, for those lumps and swellings won't go off
your face this week. That's not what I mind; I'm thinking of what your papa will say to me
when he sees you, miss."

Susan, seeing she could be of no further use, was about to leave the house, when at the door
she met Mr. Case coming in. Now, since his second visit to the Abbey, the Attorney had been
thinking things over. It was clear that both Sir Arthur and Miss Somers thought highly of the
Price family, so perhaps it was a mistake on his part not to be on friendly terms with them
too. He felt sure that if the story of Susan's lamb ever reached the Abbey, Sir Arthur would
have no more to do with him. It would therefore be well to get into the good graces of the
farmer and his family. So when Mr. Case met Susan at the door he smiled and said, "How is your
mother? Have you called for something that may be of use to her? Barbara, Barbara--Bab, come
downstairs, child, and see what you can do for Susan Price." But no Barbara answered, and her
father stalked upstairs to her room. There he stood still, amazed at the sight of his daughter's
swollen face.

Before Mr. Case could speak, Betty began to tell the story of Barbara's mishap in her own way.
Barbara spoke at the same time, giving quite another account of what had happened. The Attorney
turned the maid away on the spot, and turning to Barbara asked how she dared to treat Susan
Price so ill, "when," as he said, "she was kind enough to give you some of her honey. I will
not let you treat her so." Susan, who could not but hear all that was said, now went to beg
the angry father to forgive his daughter.

"You are too good to her, as indeed you are to everybody," he said. "I forgive her for your sake."

Susan courtesied in great surprise, but she could not forget the Attorney's treatment of Daisy,
and she left his house as soon as she could to get ready her mother's breakfast. Mr. Case saw
that Simple Susan was not to be taken in by a few simple words, and when he tried in the same
way to approach her father, the blunt, honest farmer looked at him with disdain.

XI

THE PRIZE-GIVING

So matters stood on the day of the long-expected prize-giving and ball. Miss Barbara Case,
stung by Susan's bees, could not, after all her efforts, go with Mrs. Strathspey to the ball.
The ballroom was filled early in the evening. There was a large gathering. Six ladies and six
gentlemen were chosen to be judges of the performance. They were seated opposite to the harpers.
The Misses Somers, who were fond of music, were among the ladies, and the prize was in the
hands of Sir Arthur.

There was now silence. The first harp sounded, and as each harper tried his skill, those who
listened seemed to think that he deserved the prize. The old blind man was the last. He tuned
his harp, and such a simple, sad strain was heard as touched every heart. All were delighted,
and when the music ceased there was still silence for some moments.

The silence was followed by loud cheers. The judges were all agreed that the old blind harper,
who had played last, deserved the prize. The simple, sad air, which had moved all who listened,
was composed by himself. He was asked to give the words belonging to the music, and at last
he modestly said he would repeat them, as he could not see to write. Miss Somers took her pencil,
and as the old harper repeated his ballad, she wrote the words.

The Attorney himself was present when the harper began to repeat his
ballad. His color, as Sir Arthur steadily looked at him, changed from
red to white, and from white to red, until at length he suddenly
shrunk back through the crowd and left the room. We shall not follow
him. We had rather follow our old friend the harper. The boy ran off with the
letter and was but just in time, for the postman's horn was sounding. I have won the ten-guinea prize,
     and for that I am much indebted to your sweet daughter Susan;
     as you will see by a little ballad I enclose for her. You have not,
     I know, yet made up the full sum you need; therefore, I will
     be glad if you will use the five-guinea bank-note which you
     will find within the ballad. But it is my wish
     to go about as I do. I see more of the world under my
     tattered clothes than, perhaps, I should ever see in a
     better dress.

XII

ATTORNEY CASE IN TROUBLE

It was not the postman with another letter. It was Sir Arthur and his sisters.

They came meaning to lend the farmer and his good family the money to pay the man who was willing
to go away in the farmer's place. But they found their help was not needed.

"Still, since we are here," said Sir Arthur, "there is something I should like to speak about.

"Why, sir, true enough it's mine, but you are welcome to it. I can trust you to find me another
bit worth the same, or to make up the value of it in some other way. I need say no more."

Sir Arthur was silent for a few moments. Then he said, "What is this I hear about some mistake
in your lease?"

"Well, sir," replied the farmer, "the truth is the fit thing to be spoken at all times. I can
show you a letter from your brother who had the estate before you, and who let the farm to
me. That letter shows what he meant, Sir Arthur, and if in the writing of the lease it was
otherwise said, it is, as you say, a mistake, sir. Now a mistake is a mistake all the world
over, and should be treated as such, but Attorney Case says in the matter of a lease you must
abide by the mistake as though it were the truth."

"You seem," said Sir Arthur, "to have some quarrel with this Attorney of whom you talk so often.
Now would you mind telling me frankly what is the matter between you?"

"The matter between us, sir, is this," said Price. "You know the corner of the field with the
pink hawthorn near Mr. Case's house? The lane runs past one side of it and a sweetbrier hedge
separates it on the other from his garden. Well, sir, the Attorney wishes to enclose that bit
of ground with his own, and as it belongs to the village, and moreover is a play-green for
the children, and it has been their custom to meet by the hawthorn every Mayday for as many
years as I can remember, I was loth to see them turned out of it."

"Let us go together and look at this piece of ground," said Sir Arthur. "It is not far off, is it?"

"Oh, no, sir, close by."

When they reached the ground, Mr. Case saw them from his garden and hurried to the spot. He
was afraid of what the farmer might tell Sir Arthur. But this time the Attorney was too late,
for the truth had already been told.

"Is this the place you speak of?" asked Sir Arthur.

"Yes, sir," answered Price.

"Why, Sir Arthur," said Attorney Case, seeing that he was too late, "let there be no dispute
about the ground. Let it belong to the village if you will. I give up all claim to it."

"But you know well, Mr. Case, that a man cannot give up claim to a place which is not his.
You cannot give up this piece of land, for you have no claim to it, as I can prove to you by
a look at my maps. This field used to belong to the farm on the other side of the road, but
was cut off from it when the lane was made."

"Indeed you must know best," said the trembling Attorney, who was afraid of Sir Arthur and
enraged to be shown in the wrong before Farmer Price.

"Then," said Sir Arthur to the farmer, "you understand that this little green is to be a playground
for the village children, and I hope they may gather hawthorn from their favorite bush for
many a Mayday to come."

Farmer Price bowed low, which he seldom did, even when he received a kindness for himself,
but he was now overjoyed to think of the children's delight when he should tell them the good news.

"And now, Mr. Case," said Sir Arthur, turning to the Attorney, "you sent me a lease to look over."

"Yes, I thought it my duty to do so. I hope it will not hurt the good farmer."

"No, it will not hurt him," said Sir Arthur. "I am willing to write a new one for him when
he pleases. He has a letter from my brother who let the farm to him, which shows exactly what
was meant, even if there was a mistake made in making out the lease. I hope I shall never treat
any one unfairly."

"No, indeed," said the Attorney, "but I always thought if there was a mistake in a lease it
was fair to take advantage of it."

"Then you shall be judged by your own words," answered Sir Arthur. "You meant to send me Farmer
Price's lease, but your son has somehow brought me yours instead. I have found a bad mistake
in it."

"A bad mistake in my lease!" gasped the alarmed Attorney.

"Yes," replied Sir Arthur, pulling the lease out of his pocket. "Here it is. You will see it
has not been signed."

"But you won't take advantage of a mistake, surely!" said the Attorney, who seemed to forget
that he had shortly before said that it was fair to do so.

"I shall not take advantage of you as you would have done of this honest man," replied Sir
Arthur. "You shall be paid the value of your house and land upon condition that you leave the
parish within one month."

The Attorney knew it was useless to reply. He therefore turned and sneaked away. I want no
one to do my hard work. I only want a steady, honest man, like you, to collect my rents, and
I hope, Mr. Price, you will do that for me."

"I hope, sir," said Price, with joy and gratitude glowing in his honest face, "that I'll never
give you cause to regret your goodness to me."

"And what are my sisters about here?" said Sir Arthur, entering the cottage and going behind
the two ladies, who were busy measuring a pretty colored calico.

"It is for Susan, my dear brother. I knew she did not keep that guinea for herself," said Miss
Somers.

"Oh, ma'am," said Mrs. Price, "I'm a different being. Joy, I think, has done it."

"Then," said Miss Somers, "I hope you will be able to come out on your daughter's birthday,
which, I hear, is on the twenty-fifth of this month. Good-by." The crowd on the play-green
grew bigger every minute.

"Yes," cried Philip, "I tell you it's quite true, every word of it. Susan's too modest to say
it herself, but I tell you all, that Sir Arthur has given us this play-green just because she
is so good."

LIMBY LUMPY

I

LIMBY LUMPY was the only son of his mother. The physicians, however, prescribed for him--a
dose of castor-oil.

THE SORE TONGUE

By JANE TAYLOR

There was a little girl called Fanny, who had the misfortune one day to bite her tongue as
she was eating her breakfast. It hurt her so much that she could scarcely help crying; and
even when the first smart was over, it continued so sore that whenever she spoke it pained
her considerably. Finding this to be the case, she said very pitifully to her mother, "Mamma,
you can't think how it hurts me when I speak!" "Does it?" replied her mother; "then I'll tell
you what I would advise you to do. Resolve all this day to say nothing but what is either necessary
or useful; this will give your tongue a fine holiday, and may answer more purposes than one."

Fanny, knowing that she had the character of being somewhat loquacious, could not help laughing
at this, and said, "Well, I will try for once; so, mum! I am going to begin now, mamma."

Mother. Do so; and whenever you are beginning to speak, be sure you ask yourself whether what
you were going to say was likely to be of any use, or whether it was necessary.

Fanny. Yes, yes, I will! but don't talk to me, mamma, for fear. So saying, she screwed up her
lips, and taking her work, sat for about five minutes as still as a mouse. She then looked
up, smiled and nodded at her mother, as much as to say, "See how well I can hold my tongue,"
still screwing her lips very tight for fear she should speak. Soon, however, she began to feel
a great inclination to say something; and was glad to recollect that if she could but think
of anything either useful or necessary, she might speak. Whereupon she endeavored to find something
to say that would come "within the act." To aid her invention, she looked all round the room.

Fanny. Mamma, don't you think the fire wants stirring? (This question, she thought, savored
of both qualifications.)

Mother. Not at present, my dear.

Then followed another long silence; for Fanny found it vastly more difficult than she had any
previous idea of, to think of anything useful to talk about; and she knew her mamma would laugh
at her if she said what was obviously idle or silly, just now. She was beginning to repent
having made such an agreement, when her three elder sisters entered the room. She now thought
it quite reasonable, if not absolutely necessary, to tell them of her misfortune; which she
did at considerable length, and with many needless digressions (the usual custom with great
talkers); upon which they all laughed, prophesying that her resolution would not last half
an hour, and rallying her for telling such a long story with a sore tongue.

Soon after, some ladies called to pay their mother a morning visit. This gave Fanny's tongue
such a long rest that the moment they were gone it seemed irresistibly to resume its wonted
functions.

Fanny. What a while old Mrs. W. has had that brown satin pelisse! Really, poor old lady, I
am quite tired of seeing her in it!

Mother. How is your tongue, Fanny?

Fanny. Oh, better, mamma, thank you--almost well.

Mother. I am sorry for it: I was in hopes it would have been sore enough at least to prevent
your making impertinent remarks upon anybody all this day.

Fanny. No, but really, mamma, is it not an old rubbishing thing?

Mother. I don't know, indeed. It is no business of mine; therefore I took no notice of it.

A silence ensued after this; but conversation revived when Caroline, who had stood for some
time with her eyes fixed on their opposite neighbor's window, suddenly exclaimed, "I do believe
the Joneses are going to have company again to-day! The servant has just been lighting the
fire in the drawing-room; and there is Miss Jones now gone up to dress. I saw her draw down
the blinds in her room this instant." "So she is," said Lucy, looking up: "I never knew such
people in my life! they are always having company."

"I wonder whom they are expecting to-day," said Eliza; "dinner-company, I suppose."

The proceedings of their neighbors, the Joneses, continued to furnish matter for various sagacious
conjectures and remarks for a considerable time. At length Caroline exclaimed with the eagerness
of discovery, "Look! look! there's the baker now at the door, with a whole tray full of tarts
and things. Make haste, or he'll be gone in."

Lucy. So he is, I declare; it is a dinner-party then. Well, we shall see presently, I hope,
who are coming.

Caroline. Oh, no, they never dine till five when they have company.

Eliza. And it will be dark then; how tiresome!

Lucy. If Miss Jones is not dressed already! She is this instant come into the drawing-room.

Caroline. Stand back, stand back! Don't let her see us all staring. Ah, there she is,--got
on her pink sarcenet body and sleeves to-day. How pretty that dress is, to be sure!

Eliza. And how nicely she has done her hair! Look, Caroline--braided behind.

Lucy. There, she is putting down the sash. That chimney smokes, I know, with this wind.

Fanny. And there is that little figure, Martha Jones, come down now. Do look--as broad as she
is long! What a little fright that child is, to be sure!

Mother. Pray, Fanny, was that remark useful or necessary?

Fanny. Oh, but mamma, I assure you, my tongue is quite well now.

Mother. I am sorry for it, my dear. Do you know, I should think it well worth while to bite
my tongue every day if there were no other means of keeping it in order.

At this the girls laughed; but their mother, resuming her gravity, thus continued:

"My dear girls, I should before now have put a stop to this idle gossiping, if I had not hoped
to convince you of the folly of it. It is no wonder, I confess, that at your age you should
learn to imitate a style of remark which is but too prevalent in society. Nothing, indeed,
is more contagious. But let me also tell you, that girls of your age, and of your advantages,
are capable of seeing the meanness of it, and ought to despise it. It is the chief end of education
to raise the minds of women above such trifling as this. But if a young person who has been
taught to think, whose taste has been cultivated, and who might therefore possess internal
resources, has as much idle curiosity about the affairs of her neighbors, and is as fond of
retailing petty scandal concerning them, as an uneducated woman, it proves that her mind is
incurably mean and vulgar, and that cultivation is lost upon her.

"This sort of gossiping, my dear girls, is the disgrace of our sex. The pursuits of women lie
necessarily within a narrow sphere, and they naturally sink, unless raised by refinement, or
by strong principle, into that littleness of character, for which even their own husbands and
fathers (if they are men of sense) are tempted to despise them. The minds of men, from their
engagements in business, necessarily take a larger range; and they are, in general, too much
occupied with concerns comparatively important to enter into the minute details which amuse
women. But women of education have no such plea to urge. When your father and I direct you
to this or that pursuit, it is not so much for the sake of your possessing that particular
branch of knowledge, but that by knowledge in general you may become intelligent and superior,
and that you may be furnished with resources which will save you from the miserable necessity
of seeking amusement from intercourse with your neighbors, and an acquaintance with their affairs.

"Let us suppose, now, that this morning you had been all more industriously inclined; and had
been engaged in any of your employments with that ardor which some happy young people manifest
in the acquisition of knowledge; would you, in that case, have felt any desire to know the
date of Mrs. W.'s pelisse, or any curiosity in the proceedings of our neighbors the Joneses?
No, you would then have thought it a most impertinent interruption, if any one had attempted
to entertain you with such particulars. But when the mind is indolent and empty, then it can
receive amusement from the most contemptible sources. Learn, then, to check this mean propensity.
Despise such thoughts whenever you are tempted to indulge them. Recollect that this low curiosity
is the combined result of idleness, ignorance, emptiness, and ill-nature; and fly to useful
occupation, as the most successful antidote against the evil. Nor let it be forgotten that
such impertinent remarks as these come directly under the description of those 'idle words,'
of which an account must be given in the day of judgment. Yes, this vulgar trifling is as inconsistent
with the spirit of Christian benevolence, and with the grand rule of 'doing to others as we
would that they should do to us,' as it is with refinement of taste and dignity of character."

"Who would have thought," said little Fanny, "that my happening to bite my tongue this morning
would have led to all this?"

"It would be a fortunate bite for you, Fanny," said her mother, "and for your neighbors, if
it should make you more careful in the use of it. If we were liable to such a misfortune whenever
we use our tongues improperly, some persons would be in a constant agony. Now, if our consciences
were but half as sensitive as our nerves, they would answer the purpose much better. Foolish
talking pains a good conscience, just as continual speaking hurts a sore tongue; and if we
did but regard one smart as much as the other, it would act as a constant check upon the unruly
member."

W. I wonder at that. It was the mistletoe of the oak that the Druids particularly honored.

EMBELLISHMENT

By JACOB ABBOTT

One day Beechnut, who had been ill, was taken by Phonny and Madeline for a drive. When Phonny
and Madeline found themselves riding quietly along in the wagon in Beechnut's company, the
first thought which occurred to them, after the interest and excitement awakened by the setting
out had passed in some measure away, was that they would ask him to tell them a story. This
was a request which they almost always made in similar circumstances. In all their rides and
rambles Beechnut's stories were an unfailing resource, furnishing them with an inexhaustible
fund of amusement sometimes, and sometimes of instruction.

"Well," said Beechnut, in answer to their request, "I will tell you now about my voyage across
the Atlantic Ocean."

"Yes," exclaimed Madeline, "I should like to hear about that very much indeed."

"Shall I tell the story to you just as it was," asked Beechnut, "as a sober matter of fact,
or shall I embellish it a little?"

"I don't know what you mean by embellishing it," said Madeline.

"Why, not telling exactly what is true," said Beechnut, "but inventing something to add to
it, to make it interesting."

"I want to have it true," said Madeline, "and interesting, too."

"But sometimes," replied Beechnut, "interesting things don't happen, and in such cases, if
we should only relate what actually does happen, the story would be likely to be dull."

"I think you had better embellish the story a little," said Phonny--"just a little, you know."

"I don't think I can do that very well," replied Beechnut. "If I attempt to relate the actual
acts, I depend simply on my memory, and I can confine myself to what my memory teaches; but
if I undertake to follow my invention, I must go wherever it leads me."

"Well," said Phonny, "I think you had better embellish the story, at any rate, for I want it
to be interesting."

"So do I," said Madeline.

"Then," said Beechnut, "I will give you an embellished account of my voyage across the Atlantic.
But, in the first place, I must tell you how it happened that my father decided to leave Paris
and come to America. It was mainly on my account. My father was well enough contented with
his situation so far as he himself was concerned, and he was able to save a large part of his
salary, so as to lay up a considerable sum of money every year; but he was anxious about me.

"There seemed to be nothing," continued Beechnut, "for me to do, and nothing desirable for
me to look forward to, when I should become a man. My father thought, therefore, that, though
it would perhaps be better for him to remain in France, It would probably be better for me
if he should come to America, where he said people might rise in the world, according to their
talents, thrift, and industry. He was sure, he said, that I should rise, for, you must understand,
he considered me an extraordinary boy."

"Well," said Phonny, "I think you were an extraordinary boy."

"Yes, but my father thought," rejoined Beechnut, "that I was something very extraordinary indeed.
He thought I was a genius."

"So do I," said Phonny.

"He said," continued Beechnut, "he thought it would in the end be a great deal better for him
to come to America, where I might become a man of some consequence in the world, and he said
that he should enjoy his own old age a great deal better, even in a strange land, if he could
see me going on prosperously in life, than to remain all his days in that porter's lodge.

"All the money that my father had saved," Beechnut continued, "he got changed into gold at
an office in the Bouleyard; but then he was very much perplexed to decide how it was best to
carry it."

"Why did he not pack it up in his chest?" asked Phonny.

"He was afraid," replied Beechnut, "that his chest might be broken open, or unlocked by false
keys, on the voyage, and that the money might be thus stolen away; so he thought that he would
try to hide it somewhere in some small thing that he could keep with him all the voyage."

"Could not he keep his chest with him all the voyage?" asked Phonny.

"No," said Beechnut; "the chests, and all large parcels of baggage belonging to the passengers,
must be sent down into the hold of the ship out of the way. It is only a very little baggage
that the people are allowed to keep with them between the decks. My father wished very much
to keep his gold with him, and yet he was afraid to keep it in a bag, or in any other similar
package, in his little trunk, for then whoever saw it would know that it was gold, and so perhaps
form some plan to rob him of it.

"While we were considering what plan it would be best to adopt for the gold, Arielle, who was
the daughter of a friend of ours, proposed to hide it in my top. I had a very large top which
my father had made for me. It was painted yellow outside, with four stripes of bright blue
passing down over it from the stem to the point. When the top was in motion, both the yellow
ground and the blue stripes entirely disappeared, and the top appeared to be of a uniform green
color. Then, when it came to its rest again, the original colors would reappear."

"How curious!" said Madeline. "Why would it do so?" "Why, when it was revolving," said Beechnut,
"the yellow and the blue were blended together in the eye, and that made green. Yellow and
blue always make green. Arielle colored my top, after my father had made it, and then my father
varnished it over the colors, and that fixed them.

"This top of mine was a monstrous large one, and being hollow, Arielle thought that the gold
could all be put inside. She said she thought that that would be a very safe hiding-place,
too, since nobody would think of looking into a top for gold. But my father said that he thought
that the space would not be quite large enough, and then if anybody should happen to see the
top, and should touch it, the weight of it would immediately reveal the secret.

"At last my father thought of a plan which he believed would answer the purpose very perfectly.
We had a very curious old clock. It was made by my grandfather, who was a clockmaker in Geneva.
There was a little door in the face of the clock, and whenever the time came for striking the
hours, this door would open, and a little platform would come out with a tree upon it. There
was a beautiful little bird upon the tree, and when the clock had done striking, the bird would
flap its wings and sing. Then the platform would slide back into its place, the door would
shut, and the clock go on ticking quietly for another hour.

"This clock was made to go," continued Beechnut, "as many other clocks are, by two heavy weights,
which were hung to the wheel-work by strong cords. The cords were wound round some of the wheels,
and as they slowly descended by their weight, they made the wheels go round. There was a contrivance
inside the clock to make the wheels go slowly and regularly, and not spin round too fast, as
they would have done if the weights had been left to themselves. This is the way that clocks
are often made.

"Now, my father," continued Beechnut, "had intended to take this old family clock with him
to America, and he now conceived the idea of hiding his treasure in the weights. The weights
were formed of two round tin canisters filled with something very heavy. My father said he
did not know whether it was shot or sand. He unsoldered the bottom from these canisters, and
found that the filling was shot. He poured out the shot, put his gold pieces in in place of
it, and then filled up all the interstices between and around the gold pieces with sand, to
prevent the money from jingling. Then he soldered the bottom of the canisters on again, and
no one would have known that the weights were anything more than ordinary clock-weights. He
then packed the clock in a box, and put the box in his trunk. It did not take up a great deal
of room, for he did not take the case of the clock, but only the face and the works and the
two weights, which last he packed carefully and securely in the box, one on each side of the
clock itself.

"When we got to Havre, all our baggage was examined at the Custom House, and the officers allowed
it all to pass. When they came to the clock, my father showed them the little door and the
bird inside, and they said it was very curious. They did not pay any attention to the weights
at all.

"When we went on board of the vessel our chests were put by the side of an immense heap of
baggage upon the deck, where some seamen were at work lowering it down into the hold through
a square opening in the deck of the ship. As for the trunk, my father took that with him to
the place where he was going to be himself during the voyage. This place was called the steerage.
It was crowded full of men, women, and children, all going to America. Some talked French,
some German, some Dutch, and there were ever so many babies that were too little to talk at
all. Pretty soon the vessel sailed.

"We did not meet with anything remarkable on the voyage, except that once we saw an iceberg."

"What is that?" asked Madeline.

"It is a great mountain of ice," replied Beechnut, "floating about in the sea on the top of
the water. I don't know how it comes to be there."

"I should not think it would float upon the top of the water," said Phonny. "All the ice that
I ever saw in the water sinks into it."

"It does not sink to the bottom," said Madeline.

"No," replied Phonny, "but it sinks down until the top of the ice is just level with the water.
But Beechnut says that his iceberg rose up like a mountain."

"Yes," said Beechnut, "it was several hundred feet high above the water, all glittering in
the sun. And I think that if you look at any small piece of ice floating in the water, you
will see that a small part of it rises above the surface."

"Yes," said Phenny, "a very little."

"It is a certain proportion of the whole mass," rejoined Beechnut. "They told us on board our
vessel that about one-tenth part of the iceberg was above the water; the rest--that is, nine-tenths--was
under it; so you see what an enormous big piece of ice it must have been to have only one-tenth
part of it tower up so high.

"There was one thing very curious and beautiful about our iceberg," said Beechnut. "We came
in sight of it one day about sunset, just after a shower. The cloud, which was very large and
black, had passed off into the west, and there was a splendid rainbow upon it. It happened,
too, that when we were nearest to the iceberg it lay toward the west, and, of course, toward
the cloud, and it appeared directly under the rainbow, and the iceberg and the rainbow made
a most magnificent spectacle. The iceberg, which was very bright and dazzling in the evening
sun, looked like an enormous diamond, with the rainbow for the setting."

"How curious!" said Phonny.

"Yes," said Beechnut, "and to make it more remarkable still, a whale just then came along directly
before the iceberg, and spouted there two or three times; and as the sun shone very brilliantly
upon the jet of water which the whale threw into the air, it made a sort of silver rainbow
below in the center of the picture."

"How beautiful it must have been!" said Phonny.

"Yes," rejoined Beechnut, "very beautiful indeed. We saw a great many beautiful spectacles
on the sea; but then, on the other hand, we saw some that were dreadful.

"Did you?" asked Phonny. "What?"

"Why, we had a terrible storm and shipwreck at the end," said Beechnut. "For three days and
three nights the wind blew almost a hurricane. They took in all the sails, and let the ship
drive before the gale under bare poles. She went on over the seas for five hundred miles, howling
all the way like a frightened dog."

"Were you frightened?" asked Phonny.

"Yes," said Beechnut. "When the storm first came on, several of the passengers came up the
hatchways and got up on the deck to see it; and then we could not get down again, for the ship
gave a sudden pitch just after we came up, and knocked away the step-ladder. We were terribly
frightened. The seas were breaking over the forecastle and sweeping along the decks, and the
shouts and outcries of the captain and the sailors made a dreadful din. At last they put the
step-ladder in its place again, and we got down. Then they put the hatches on, and we could
not come out any more."

"The hatches?" said Phonny. "What are they?"

"The hatches," replied Beechnut, "are a sort of scuttle-doors that cover over the square openings
in the deck of a ship. They always have to put them on and fasten them down in a great storm."

Just at this time the party happened to arrive at a place where two roads met, and as there
was a broad and level space of ground at the junction, where it would be easy to turn the wagon,
Beechnut said that he thought it would be better to make that the end of their ride, and so
turn round and go home. Phonny and Madeline were quite desirous of going a little farther,
but Beechnut thought that he should be tired by the time he reached the house again.

"But you will not have time to finish the story," said Phonny.

"Yes," replied Beechnut; "there is very little more to tell. It is only to give an account
of our shipwreck."

"Why, did you have a shipwreck?" exclaimed Phonny.

"Yes," said Beechnut. "When you have turned the wagon, I will tell you about it."

So Phonny, taking a great sweep, turned the wagon round, and the party set their faces toward
home. The Marshal was immediately going to set out upon a trot, but Phonny held him back by
pulling upon the reins and saying:

"Steady, Marshal! steady! You have got to walk all the way home."

"The storm drove us upon the Nova Scotia coast," said Beechnut, resuming his story. "We did
not know anything about the great danger that we were in until just before the ship went ashore.
When we got near the shore the sailors put down all the anchors; but they would not hold, and
at length the ship struck. Then there followed a dreadful scene of consternation and confusion.
Some jumped into the sea in their terror, and were drowned. Some cried and screamed, and acted
as if they were insane. Some were calm, and behaved rationally. The sailors opened the hatches
and let the passengers come up, and we got into the most sheltered places that we could find
about the decks and rigging, and tied ourselves to whatever was nearest at hand. My father
opened his trunk and took out his two clock-weights, and gave me one of them; the other he
kept himself. He told me that we might as well try to save them, though he did not suppose
that we should be able to do so.

"Pretty soon after we struck the storm seemed to abate a little. The people of the country
came down to the shore and stood upon the rocks to see if they could do anything to save us.
We were very near the shore, but the breakers and the boiling surf were so violent between
us and the land that whoever took to the water was sure to be dashed in pieces. So everybody
clung to the ship, waiting for the captain to contrive some way to get us to the shore."

"And what did he do?" asked Phonny.

"He first got a long line and a cask, and he fastened the end of the long line to the cask,
and then threw the cask overboard. The other end of the line was kept on board the ship. The
cask was tossed about upon the waves, every successive surge driving it in nearer and nearer
to the shore, until at last it was thrown up high upon the rocks. The men upon the shore ran
to seize it, but before they could get hold of it the receding wave carried it back again among
the breakers, where it was tossed about as if it had been a feather, and overwhelmed with the
spray. Presently away it went again up upon the shore, and the men again attempted to seize
it. This was repeated two or three times. At last they succeeded in grasping hold of it, and
they ran up with it upon the rocks, out of the reach of the seas.

"The captain then made signs to the men to pull the line in toward the shore. He was obliged
to use signs, because the roaring and thundering of the seas made such a noise that nothing
could be heard. The sailors had before this, under the captain's direction, fastened a much
stronger line--a small cable, in fact--to the end of the line which had been attached to the
barrel. Thus, by pulling upon the smaller line, the men drew one end of the cable to the shore.
The other end remained on board the ship, while the middle of it lay tossing among the breakers
between the ship and the shore.

"The seamen then carried that part of the cable which was on shipboard up to the masthead,
while the men on shore made their end fast to a very strong post which they set in the ground.
The seamen drew the cable as tight as they could, and fastened their end very strongly to the
masthead. Thus the line of the cable passed in a gentle slope from the top of the mast to the
land, high above all the surges and spray. The captain then rigged what he called a sling,
which was a sort of loop of ropes that a person could be put into and made to slide down in
it on the cable to the shore. A great many of the passengers were afraid to go in this way,
but they were still more afraid to remain on board the ship."

"What were they afraid of?" asked Phonny.

"They were afraid," replied Beechnut, "that the shocks of the seas would soon break the ship
to pieces, and then they would all be thrown into the sea together. In this case they would
certainly be destroyed, for if they were not drowned, they would be dashed to pieces on the
rocks which lined the shore.

"Sliding down the line seemed thus a very dangerous attempt, but they consented one after another
to make the trial, and thus we all escaped safe to land."

"And did you get the clock-weights safe to the shore?" asked Phonny.

"Yes," replied Beechnut, "and as soon as we landed we hid them in the sand. My father took
me to a little cove close by, where there was not much surf, as the place was protected by
a rocky point of land which bounded it on one side. Behind this point of land the waves rolled
up quietly upon a sandy beach. My father went down upon the slope of this beach, to a place
a little below where the highest waves came, and began to dig a hole in the sand. He called
me to come and help him. The waves impeded our work a little, but we persevered until we had
dug a hole about a foot deep. We put our clock-weights into this hole and covered them over.
We then ran back up upon the beach. The waves that came up every moment over the place soon
smoothed the surface of the sand again, and made it look as if nothing had been done there.
My father measured the distance from the place where he had deposited his treasure up to a
certain great white rock upon the shore exactly opposite to it, so as to be able to find the
place again, and then we went back to our company. They were collected on the rocks in little
groups, wet and tired, and in great confusion, but rejoiced at having escaped with their lives.
Some of the last of the sailors were then coming over in the sling. The captain himself came
last of all.

"There were some huts near the place on the shore, where the men made good fires, and we warmed
and dried ourselves. The storm abated a great deal in a few hours, and the tide went down,
so that we could go off to the ship before night to get some provisions. The next morning the
men could work at the ship very easily, and they brought all the passengers' baggage on shore.
My father got his trunk with the clock in it. A day or two afterward some sloops came to the
place, and took us all away to carry us to Quebec. Just before we embarked on board the sloops,
my father and I, watching a good opportunity, dug up our weights out of the sand, and put them
back safely in their places in the clock-box."

"Is that the end?" asked Phonny, when Beechnut paused.

"Yes," replied Beechnut, "I believe I had better make that the end."

"I think it is a very interesting and well-told story," said Madeline. "And do you feel very
tired?"

"No," said Beechnut. "On the contrary, I feel all the better for my ride. I believe I will
sit up a little while."

So saying, he raised himself in the wagon and sat up, and began to look about him.

"What a wonderful voyage you had, Beechnut!" said Phonny. "But I never knew before that you
were shipwrecked."

"Well, in point of fact," replied Beechnut, "I never was shipwrecked."

"Never was!" exclaimed Phonny. "Why, what is all this story that you have been telling us, then?"

"Embellishment," said Beechnut quietly.

"Embellishment!" repeated Phonny, more and more amazed.

"Yes," said Beechnut.

"Then you were not wrecked at all?" said Phonny.

"No," replied Beechnut.

"And how did you get to the land?" asked Phonny.

"Why, we sailed quietly up the St. Lawrence," replied Beechnut, "and landed safely at Quebec,
as other vessels do."

"And the clock-weights?" asked Phonny.

"All embellishment," said Beechnut. "My father had no such clock, in point of fact. He put
his money in a bag, his bag in his chest, and his chest in the hold, and it came as safe as
the captain's sextant."

"And the iceberg and the rainbow?" said Madeline.

"Embellishment, all embellishment," said Beechnut.

"Dear me!" said Phonny, "I thought it was all true."

"Did you?" said Beechnut. "I am sorry that you were so deceived, and I am sure it was not my
fault, for I gave you your choice of a true story or an invention, and you chose the invention."

"Yes," said Phonny, "so we did."

And he began to scream and to cry.

"Do not cry, my sweet soul," said his mother, "and we will see what we can do. However, I will try.

He then went on a little further, and saw a man wading about in a pool of water without being
able to get out, in spite of all his endeavors. "There," said he, "now you are nicely seated
I am going to feed you." Although you escape now, be assured, sir, that if you do not repent
and mend your manners, you will meet with a severe punishment for your bad behavior."

"Well, then, mamma, there are buckles; you know that buckles are useful things, very useful
things."

"I have a pair of buckles; I don't want another pair," said her mother, and walked on.

"Nay, my dear, I want you to think for yourself; you will have time enough to consider the
matter, while I speak to Mr. Sole about my clogs."

"No, indeed, mamma, it will come home very soon, I dare say. What is it? But let us have the
other now.

TRIAL

Of a Complaint made against Sundry Persons for Breaking in the Windows of Dorothy Careful,
Widow and Dealer in Gingerbread

By JOHN AIKIN AND MRS. BARBAULD

The court being sat, there appeared in person the widow Dorothy Careful to make a complaint
against Henry Luckless, and other person or persons unknown, for breaking three panes of glass,
value ninepence, in the house of the said widow. Being directed to tell her case to the court,
she made a curtsey and began as follows:

"Please, your lordship, I was sitting at work by my fireside between the hours of six and seven
in the evening, just as it was growing dusk, and little Jack was spinning beside me, when all
at once crack went the window, and down fell a little basket of cakes that was set up against
it. I started up and cried to Jack: 'Bless me, what's the matter?' 'So,' says Jack, 'sombody
has thrown a stone and broke the window, and I dare say it is some of the schoolboys.' With
that I ran out of the house, and saw some boys making off as fast as they could go. So I ran
after them as quick as my old legs would carry me, but I should never have come near them if
one had not happened to fall down. Him I caught and brought back to my house, when Jack knew
him at once to be Master Henry Luckless. So I told him I would complain of him the next day,
and I hope your worship will make him pay the damage, and I think he deserves a good whipping
into the bargain for injuring a poor widow woman."

The Judge, having heard Mrs. Careful's story, desired her to sit down, and then calling up
Master Luckless, asked him what he had to say for himself. Luckless appeared with his face
a good deal scratched, and looking very ruefully. After making his bow and sobbing two or three
times, he said:

"My lord, I am as innocent of this matter as any boy in the school, and I am sure I have suffered
enough about it already. My lord, Billy Thompson and I were playing in the lane near Mrs. Careful's
house when we heard the window crash, and directly after she came running out towards us. Upon
this Billy ran away, and I ran too, thinking I might bear the blame. But after running a little
way I stumbled over something that lay in the road, and before I could get up again she overtook
me, and caught me by the hair, and began lugging and cuffing me. I told her it was not I that
broke her window, but it did not signify; so she dragged me to the light, lugging and scratching
me all the while, and then said she would inform against me. And that is all I know of the matter."

"I find, good woman," said the Judge, "you were willing to revenge yourself without waiting
for the justice of this court."

"My lord, I must confess I was put into a passion, and did not properly consider what I was doing."

"Well, where is Billy Thompson?"

"Here, my lord."

"You have heard what Henry Luckless says. Declare upon your honor whether he has spoken the truth."

"My lord," said Billy, "I am sure neither he nor I had any concern in breaking the window.
We were standing together at the time, and I ran on hearing the door open, for fear of being
charged with it, and he followed; but what became of him I did not stay to see."

"So you let your friend," the Judge remarked, "shift for himself, and thought only of saving
yourself. But did you see any other person about the house or in the lane?"

"My lord, I thought I heard some one creeping along the other side of the hedge a little before
the window was broken, but I saw nobody."

"You hear, good woman, what is alleged in behalf of the person you have accused. Have you any
other evidence against him?"

"One might be sure," the widow replied, "they would deny it, and tell lies for one another;
but I hope I am not to be put off in that manner."

"I must tell you, mistress, that you give too much liberty to your tongue, and are as guilty
of as much injustice as that of which you complain. I should be sorry indeed if the young gentlemen
of this school deserved the general character of liars. You will find among us, I hope, as
just a sense of what is right and honorable as among those who are older, and our worthy master
would certainly not permit us to try offences in this manner if he thought us capable of bearing
false witness in each other's favor."

"I ask your lordship's pardon; I did not mean to offend; but it is a heavy loss for a poor
woman, and though I did not catch the boy in the act, he was the nearest when it was done."

"As that is no more than a suspicion, and he has the positive evidence of his schoolfellow
in his favor, it will be impossible to convict him consistently with the rules of justice.
Have you discovered any other circumstance that may point out the offender?"

"My lord, next morning Jack found on the floor this top, which I suppose the window was broke
with."

"Hand it up. Here, gentlemen of the jury, please to examine it, and see if you can discover
anything of its owner."

"Here is 'P.R.' cut upon it."

"Yes," said another boy, "I am sure I remember Peter Riot having just such a one."

"So do I," still another remarked.

"Master Riot, is this your top?"

"I don't know, my lord," said Riot; "perhaps it may be mine. I have had a great many tops,
and when I have done with them I throw them away, and any body may pick them up that pleases.
You see, it has lost its peg."

"Very well, sir. Mrs. Careful, you may retire."

"And must I have no amends, my lord?"

"Have patience; leave everything to the court. We shall do you all the justice in our power."

As soon as the widow was gone the Judge rose from his seat, and with much solemnity thus addressed
the assembly:

"Gentlemen, this business, I confess, gives me much dissatisfaction. A poor woman has been
insulted and injured in her property, apparently without provocation, and although she has
not been able to convict the offender, it cannot be doubted that she, as well as the world
in general, will impute the crime to some of our society. Though I am in my own mind convinced
that in her passion she charged an innocent person, yet the circumstance of the top is a strong
suspicion--indeed, almost a proof--that the perpetrator of this unmanly mischief was one of
our body.

"The owner of the top has justly observed that its having been his property is no certain proof
against him.

"Since, therefore, in the present defect of evidence the whole school must remain burdened
with both the discredit of this action and share in the guilt of it, I think fit, in the first
place, to decree that restitution shall be made to the sufferer out of the public chest, and,
next, that a Court of Inquiry be instituted for the express purpose of searching thoroughly
into the affair, with the power to examine all persons upon honor who are thought likely to
be able to throw light upon it. I hope, gentlemen, these measures meet with your concurrence."

The whole court bowed to the Judge, and expressed their entire satisfaction with his determination.

It was then ordered that the Public Treasurer should go to the Widow Careful's house, and pay
her a sum of one shilling, making at the same time a handsome apology in the name of the school;
and six persons were taken by lot of the jury to compose the Court of Inquiry, which was to
sit in the evening.

The Court then adjourned.

On the meeting of the Court of Inquiry the first thing proposed by the President was that the
persons who usually played with Master Riot should be sent for. Accordingly Tom Frisk and Bob
Loiter were summoned, when the President asked them upon their honor if they knew the top to
have been Riot's.

They said they did. They were then asked if they remembered when Riot had it in his possession.

"He had it," said Frisk, "the day before yesterday, and split a top of mine with it."

"Yes," said Loiter, "and then as he was making a stroke at mine the peg flew out."

"What did he do with it?"

"He put it into his pocket, and said as it was a strong top he would have it mended."

"Then he did not throw it away, or give it to any one?"

"Yes; a day or two before he went to the Widow Careful's shop for some gingerbread; but as
he already owed her sixpence, she would not let him have any till he had paid his debts."

"How did he take the disappointment?"

"He said he would be revenged on her."

"Are you sure he used such words?"

"Yes. Loiter heard him as well as myself."

"I did, sir," said Loiter.

"Do either of you know any more of this affair?"

"No, sir," replied both boys together.

"You may go," said the President, adding "that these witnesses had done a good deal in establishing
proof against Riot; for it was pretty certain that no one but himself could have been in possession
of the top at the time the crime was committed, and it also appeared that he had declared a
malicious intention against the woman, which it was highly probable he would put into execution.
As the court were debating about the next step to be taken they were acquainted that Jack,
the widow's son, was waiting at the school-door for admission; and a person being sent out
for him, Riot was found threatening the boy, and bidding him go home about his business. The
boy, however, was conveyed safely into the room, when he thus addressed himself to the President:

"Sir, and please your worship," said Jack, "as I was looking about this morning for sticks
in the hedge over against our house, I found this buckle. So I thought to myself, 'Sure this
must belong to the rascal that broke our window.' So I have brought it to see if any one in
the school would own it."

"On which side of the hedge did you find it?"

"On the other side from our house, in the close."

"Let us see it Gentlemen," said the President, "this is so smart a buckle that I am sure I
remember it at once, and I dare say you all do."

"It is Riot's!" exclaimed all together.

"Has anybody observed Riot's shoes to-day?" the President asked.

"Yes; he has got them tied with strings," a boy replied.

"Very well, then, gentlemen, we have nothing more to do than to draw up the evidence we have
heard, and lay it before his lordship. Jack, you may go home."

"Pray, sir, let somebody go with me, for I am afraid of Riot, who has just been threatening
me at the door."

"Master Bold will please to go along with the boy."

The minutes of the court were then drawn up, and the President took them to the Judge's chamber.
After the Judge had perused them, he ordered an indictment to be drawn up against Peter Riot:
"For that he meanly and clandestinely and with malice aforethought had broken three panes in
the window of Widow Careful with a certain instrument called a top, whereby he had committed
an atrocious injury upon an innocent person, and had brought a disgrace upon the society to
which he belonged."

At the same time he sent an officer to inform Master Riot that his trial would come on the
next morning.

Riot, who was with some of his gay companions, affected to treat the matter with great indifference,
and even to make a jest of it. However, in the morning he thought it best to endeavor to make
it up, and accordingly, when the court was assembled, he sent one of his friends with a shilling,
saying that he would not trouble them with further inquiries, but would pay the sum that had
been issued out of the public stock. On the receipt of this message the Judge rose with much
severity in his countenance, and observing that by such contemptuous behavior towards the court
the criminal had greatly added to his offence, he ordered two officers with their staves immediately
to go and bring in Riot, and to use force if he should resist them.

The culprit, thinking it best to submit, was presently led in between the two officers, when,
being placed at the bar, the Judge then addressed him: "I am sorry, sir, that any member of
this society can be so little sensible of the nature of a crime and so little acquainted with
the principles of a court of justice as you have shown yourself to be by the proposal you took
the improper liberty of sending us. If you mean it as a confession of your guilt, you certainly
ought to have waited to receive from us the penalty we thought proper to inflict, and not to
have imagined that an offer of the mere payment of damages would satisfy the claims of justice
against you. If you had only broken the window by accident, and on your own accord offered
restitution, nothing less than the full damages could have been accepted; but you now stand
charged with having done this mischief meanly, secretly, and maliciously, and thereby have
added a great deal of criminal intention to the act. Can you, then, think that a court like
this, designed to watch over the morals, as well as protect the property of our community,
can so slightly pass over such aggravated offences? You can claim no merit from confessing
the crime now that you know so much evidence will appear against you. And if you choose still
to plead not guilty, you are at liberty to do it, and we will proceed immediately to the trial
without taking any advantage of the confession implied by your offer of payment."

Riot stood silent for some time, and then begged to be allowed to consult with his friends
what was the best for him to do. This was agreed to, and he was permitted to retire, though
under guard of an officer. After a short absence he returned with more humility in his looks,
and said that he pleaded guilty, and threw himself on the mercy of the court. The Judge then
made a speech of some length, for the purpose of convincing the prisoner, as well as the bystanders,
of the enormity of his crime. He then pronounced the following sentence:

"You, Peter Riot, are hereby sentenced to pay to the public treasury the sum of half a crown
as a satisfaction for this mischief you have done, and your attempt to conceal it.

"You are to repair to the house of Widow Careful, accompanied by such witnesses as we shall
appoint, and then, having first paid her the sum you owe her, you shall ask her pardon for
the insult you offered her. You shall likewise to-morrow after school stand up in your place
and before all the scholars ask pardon for the disgrace you have been the means of bringing
upon the society, and in particular you shall apologize to Master Luckless for the disagreeable
circumstances you were the means of bringing him into. Till after this is complied with you
shall not presume to come into the playground or join in any of the diversions of the school,
and all persons are hereby admonished not to keep you company till this is done."

Riot was then dismissed to his room, and in the afternoon he was taken to the widow, who was
pleased to receive his submission graciously, and at the same time to apologize for her own
improper treatment of Master Luckless, to whom she sent a present of a nice ball by way of amends.

Thus ended this important business. Yes, it is a dreadful thing, and many a little boy has
lost his eyesight by it. Next to playing with fire, I do not know anything so bad as playing
with gunpowder.

Every one knows of the fifth of November, the day set apart for commemorating the deliverance
of King James and his Parliament from the horrible plot to blow them up with gunpowder, and
how on that day Guido Fawkes, who was to have put the plan in execution, has his effigy paraded
about.

Well, it was on the fifth of November, in the year 1789, when Peter Parley was a boy, that
the circumstances took place of which I am going to give a relation. The boys of those days,
I think, were more fond of Guy Fawkes, and bonfires, and squibs, and crackers than they are now.

I remember it was the first of November, early in the morning, that a lad, who was on a visit
to my father, and who was my second cousin, got out of bed and said to me (for we both slept
in one room):

"Peter," said he, "do you have a guy in this town? I had a famous one last year, and such a
bonfire as you never saw, for we burnt down a haystack. I should like to have a guy this year;
do let us make one."

I was only about twelve years old, and very fond of a bit of fun, and so I said:

"That is a good idea. I was thinking of the same thing last night, because the clerk gave out
in the church that there would be prayers on the fifth of November, on account of the Gunpowder
Plot; and, as I came out of the church porch I saw a very old woman sitting there. She looked
just like an old witch, and I said to myself, 'I should like to seize her for a guy.'"

"Seize an old woman for a guy! Well, that would be the drollest thing that ever happened,"
said he; "and I should like to go you halves. Shall we go partners in it? We can easily get
a chair and tie her down in it, and get a dark lantern and some matches and all that."

"But she must be dressed like a man," said I; "there never was a female Guy Fawkes. The people
would laugh at us."

"So much the better," said he; "that is just what we want. I like something original, out of
the common way. Now, a female Guy Fawkes is a thing that few persons ever saw, or even heard of."

"But shall we not be taken up," said I, "perhaps put in prison, and get ourselves into a hobble?"

"Well, what if we do? But we shall not do that. I am sure it is all right enough. But, however,
to be quite certain, if you like we will ask Ephraim Quidd. You know, his father is a lawyer,
and he will tell us in a minute. So when we go to school we will ask him, shall we?"

"With all my heart," said I. And so with that we began to dress ourselves, and went downstairs
to breakfast. I was so full of the matter that I sat and thought of it all the time I was eating
my food; and at last my imagination painted the old woman sitting in a chair, calling out,
"I am no guy! I am no guy!" the mob laughing, and the boys hurrahing so vividly that I burst
into a fit of laughter myself.

"Why, Peter," said my father, "'what is the matter now?"

Instead of telling him I continued to laugh, till at last he grew very angry with me, and ordered
me from the breakfast-table. I then took my hat and bag, and went off to school. Simon Sapskull--for
that was my cousin's name--soon followed me.

When he came up with me he said:

"I thought what you were laughing at. It will be good fun. Let us make haste and see Quidd
before he goes in. It will be good fun, won't it?"

And here Master Simon jumped and capered about with delight.

When we came to the schoolyard there were several boys assembled and Quidd among them. Simon
immediately ran up to him.

"Quidd," said he, "I want to ask you a question. You know the law, do you not? Your father
is the town clerk, and you ought."

"I do know the law," said Quidd. "Have I not been bred to it? And is not my father to be made
Recorder next year?"

"Well, then, answer me this," said Simon. "Is there any law against seizing an old woman for
a guy?"

The next morning Sapskull and myself, with Thomas Hardy and half a dozen other boys, met with
a view to talk about the intended exploit. We withdrew to the backyard of the schoolroom, and
there, in a corner where we thought we could not be overheard, we began to plot against the
liberty of Dame Clackett.

Hardy was one of the rarest boys for making fireworks I ever knew in my life. He had bought
a book called "Every Boy his own Squib-Maker," in which were directions for making squibs,
crackers, rockets, Roman candles, serpents, slow fire, blue lights, and other descriptions
of fireworks. This he nearly knew by heart. Sapskull said:

"Look in your book and see if there is not in it how to make a guy."

So Hardy looked all over the book, but to no purpose; there was no description of a guy manufactory.
It was of no consequence; we had a guy in our head, and we only now wished to know how we should
get hold of the old lady, and what we should do on this joyful occasion.

Hardy said he had several pounds of gunpowder, and would sell us all squibs and crackers. But
these we did not so much want. What we wanted was an old chair, an old jacket, hat, and other
matters to dress up the old lady when we could catch her. But how to get her into the chair
was the difficulty, and some proposed one thing and some another. Sapskull said, "We must make
her merry with some beer." Hardy said, "We must tie her down." But I proposed to ask her to
sit for her picture as a guy, and then to carry her off. Master Quidd was, however, more cunning
than any of us, and said, "I know how to nab her; I have a plan, and a capital one it is, too."

"What is it? what is it?" said all of us.

The fact was old Dame Clackett was a very staunch churchwoman, and used always to go both on
Wednesdays and Fridays, Rain or sunshine, hot or cold, nothing could keep her away from her
church, and we silly boys laughed at her for it. Poor old creature! she felt more real pleasure
in this than we could imagine.

"I will tell you what we will do," said Quidd. "There is in our outhouse an old wheeled chair
which my mother used to ride about in when she was so long ill, a year or two ago. Now, I know
old Dame Clackett is very lame just now, from having let fall her fender on her foot. I will
take this chair down, and offer to draw her to church in it, and then, when we have once got
her in the chair, we can do as we like with her. Hurrah!"

"Won't that be fun?" continued Quidd. "Let us do it--let us do it. There is no law against
it; the thing was never thought of. It is just like the law that was never made among the Romans
that I read about in my lessons yesterday: there was no law against a child killing his own
father. I tell you," said he, "if there were twenty old women to be seized and burnt, nobody
could be hurt for it. But you do not mean to burn her, I suppose, do you?"

"Oh no," said we; "we only want to have some fun. We should like to make a guy of her, that
is all, and rare fun it will be."

"Let me join you," said one; "Let me join," said another, till at last the whole school entered
into the plot.

We all forgot what we should have remembered--namely, that, instead of despising or ridiculing
people who are old and helpless and poor, we ought to treat them with kindness, respect, and
consideration. We forgot that we, if suffered to live long enough, should also become old,
and that it would be hard for us to bear the coldness and neglect of the world, but much harder
to endure the ridicule and ill-behavior of wicked children. Ay, we were thoughtless lads, and
so we suffered for it, as you will afterwards hear.

       *       *       *       *       *

The old lady whom I had seen sitting in the church porch, who was so ugly, as I thought, and
so withered and old, was a very poor widow. Her husband had died in battle long ago, and she
had from year to year supported herself by her spinning wheel and the little relief she had
from the parish. She lived in a little hut on a piece of waste ground, and kept a little poultry,
and now and then a pig or two.

Among other animals, the old lady kept an enormous goat, or, rather, he kept himself. It was
one her husband had brought her from abroad, of the Syrian breed. It was quite young when it
came over, but at last grew and grew so, as to become a very formidable animal, so strong and
fierce, that every dog was afraid of it, being, no doubt, terrified by the sight of its large
horns and undaunted aspect. The name of this dread animal was Hannibal.

Poor old Goody Clackett--for that was her name--had little thoughts of ever being "smugged,"
as it was termed, by our schoolfellows to make a guy on the fifth of November, and sat quietly
enough spinning her wheel and drawing out her yarn. Sometimes the thrum of the old wheel would
send her soundly to sleep, and then she never dreamed of such a thing as was to happen to her.

Every boy was delighted with this proposition, and it was arranged that on the following evening
I and my cousin Simon should assist in the endeavor to get the chair from the outhouse to a
convenient place, while Hardy was to provide lantern, matches, cap, and feathers, with red
and black paint to disfigure the features of the poor old creature.

"We will make her amends," said Quidd, "all the money we get shall be hers."

"Oh yes; that is quite fair," said I.

When the evening came and it was quite dark, Simon and I went to the back part of Quidd's father's
house. After waiting some little time we heard a knock. Presently Quidd opened the gates and
came out.

"There, get it," said he. "Look about to see if anybody is coming, and you can take it away."

We did so. The coast was clear, and out rolled the chair.

Simon and I took hold of it, one behind and one before at the handle-stick. Away we went, as
had been preconcerted between us in the stable-yard of another schoolfellow of ours in the
plot, who placed it near the gate and covered it over with loose straw, so that no one could
see it.

The next evening, which was the fourth of November, we met again by appointment at the dark
hollow of the churchyard. This meeting was for the purpose of determining about the way in
which Dame Clackett should be dressed in her triumphal entry to the Town Hall, the place where
the bonfires were usually made. Hardy had brought what was of essential service--namely, an
old coat which had formerly belonged to his father when in the yeomanry cavalry, an old helmet,
a cartridge-box, and a pair of boots.

"We shall never get the boots on," said I.

Another boy brought an old lantern with the horn burnt out, a third a bunch of matches; then
there was a mask and a lath-sword and a drum, with sticks and straw in abundance. They were
all deposited in the same place with the chair. The conspirators (for conspirators we were)
then made a promise to each other not to split, as they call it--that is, not to betray each
other, and to go through with our work like Britons; so we all shook hands and parted.

The next morning was a holiday, and we were up betimes. After a consultation it was determined
that I and Quidd should go to the old dame and see how she was, and if she was determined to
go to church, and if there would be any difficulty to get her to accept of the convenience
of our vehicle; so off we set. In less than half-an-hour we reached the old dame's cottage,
and found her at that very moment dressing her foot.

Quidd was the first who spoke.

"Good morning, Goody," said he. "What, is not your foot well yet? Why, I hear you have not
been to church lately. The curate was at father's last night, and said if you were so lame
that you could not walk, you might have our easy four-wheeled chair. But I suppose you won't
go to church to-day--it is only the fifth of November?"

"Not go to church!" said the old woman--"not go to church! I have always gone on the fifth
of November for forty years. My poor husband was in a French prison, and he knew well enough
what the Jacobites are. Was he not blown up, poor fellow, in the 'Glorious?' and were not King
James and all his people to have been blown up so high by the horrid Papist plot that I suppose
they would not have been down by this time? No Popery, I say! I would sooner crawl to church
on my hands and knees than not go to-day, young gentlemen. And then Mr. Hassock, the kind,
good curate, to ask for me!"

"Yes, and then there is the 'coal money' given on the fifth, that all the widows in the parish
may have a good fire through the winter, you know, Goody."

"Yes, I must go to church," said Mrs. Clackett.

"That you must," said Quidd, "and I will tell you what these young gentlemen and I will do.
We will bring down the chair, and take you there ourselves. I am sure it would please Mr. Hassock.
Would it not, Parley?"

"Yes, and the rector also," said I. "And I have no doubt but the churchwardens would like to
see Goody at church, for the tickets for flannel petticoats are to be given away to-day."

"What is that?" said Mrs. Clackett. "Oh, yes, I could not keep away from my church! Good young
gentlemen, I shall never forget your kindness."

We stopped to hear no more. We were overjoyed with the success of our plot. Away we ran to
our companions, and, without stopping to explain, cried out:

"The chair! the chair! We shall have a guy, the best in the whole country!"

So away we ran with the chair, and all our other preparations for dressing and tying and securing.

The whole party surrounded the chair, some pushing, some pulling. When, however, we got within
a convenient distance of the old lady's hut, Hardy and the others stepped on one side, and
placed the helmet, coat, lantern, matches, etc., under a hedge, to be ready when required,
while Quidd, Sapskull, and myself went with the chair to the old lady's cottage.

When we got there we found her spruce and prim with her best black silk bonnet, something in
shape like a coal-scuttle, her stick in her hand, and her shoes on her feet. We drove up the
chair in fine style. There were several cottages close by, and the neighbors came out to see
the old lady ride. At last some one who knew Quidd said:

"Why, that is the lawyer's son. Sure enough old Goody has got some money left her."

So then there was a talking and surmising, and before Goody got to church it was reported all
over the town that she was made the possessor of several thousand pounds prize-money; that
she was to be a lady, and ride in her carriage. Being sent for, as it was supposed, by the
lawyer must be for something--a large legacy, no doubt.

The chair wheeled on with Goody in it. The boys looked as if they were up to something, and
sure enough they were. When they came to that part of the lane at which the various habiliments
had been left, the chair stopped, and out rushed the other conspirators.

"Do not be alarmed, Goody," said Hardy. "We are only going to make a guy of you for an hour
or two. No one shall harm you, and you shall have all the money we get."

"I want to go to church--I want to go to church!" said the old lady, and tried to get out of
the chair.

Hardy, however, very dexterously threw some cord round the arms, and tied the poor old creature
down.

"We won't hurt you, Goody," said he. "We only want you for a guy. You shall have all the money."

"I won't be a guy! I won't be a guy!" said Goody. "I do not want any money. Let me out! let
me out!"

She then made a blow with her broomstick, and struck Master Hardy on the nose, from which the
blood flowed freely. This, however, only made him the more determined, and in a few minutes
the poor old woman's arms were secured as well as her legs.

"Oh, help, neighbors! They are going to burn me!" said the old lady, and then she fell coughing,
for she had long suffered from asthma.

While convulsed with this fit, the boys took the opportunity to besmear her face with red and
black paint, and to place the helmet on her head, and the coat round her, so that the arms
hung on each side with nothing on them. The chair was then crammed with straw, and the lantern
and the matches suspended from it. In this state the chair was wheeled rapidly along in the
direction of the town.

Other boys soon joined, and surrounded the vehicle, shouting and laughing. The old lady, made
several ineffectual attempts to get out of the chair. She called out, "A plot! a plot! a Popery
plot! No Popery! Oh! I shall be killed!" and many such exclamations. The populace took this
as a part of the character, and laughed most heartily. The greatest number of persons thought
the guy to be a boy dressed up, and cried out that he acted his part well. No one suspected
it was old Dame Clackett.

Away they went in the midst of the hubbub, up one street and down another, over the market-place
and by the church. Just as the clock struck twelve the boys of the Free School came from the
latter place, and joined the procession. It was now a national affair, and, as it proceeded
from the church doors, it was thought to be the church Guy Fawkes--and so it was.

"Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted a hundred voices; and while Hardy and his companions held on the
chair, Quidd and I went about with our hats to collect as much money as we could.

The old lady was vociferous, and struggled to get out. She flung her arms about, and cried
out, "Deliver me from the flames! Save me from being burnt!" and everybody thought that the
part of guy was acted to perfection.

Quidd and I got a great deal of money--silver, and copper, and even gold. Seven-shilling pieces
were in circulation at that time, and the squire and Mr. Hassock passing us, one threw sixpence
and the other a seven-shilling piece to us, for which we gave a louder cheer than usual. In
short, our hats were very nearly half full of money.

The old woman began to be more pacified as she saw the money coming in, particularly as we
put it all into her lap, and told her it should be hers. But the sight of the squire and the
curate, and the seven-shilling piece, which latter we put into her mouth, seemed quite to reconcile
her to her fate. She became then as gentle as a lamb. She said:

"Do as you like--do as you like, only don't burn me for a guy; and give me a drop of something
to drink."

"Oh yes," said Quidd, "here is something for you. Hold up your head."

And half a pint of good strong ale soon found its way down the throat of the dame. After this
the chair again moved on, till at last it came to the market-place, opposite the Town Hall,
where an enormous bonfire was in preparation, over which stood a gallows.

The old lady, when she saw the gallows, screamed "Murder! fire! brimstone!" and all sorts of
horrid cries; but nobody took any heed of it, except to laugh. They thought it was in keeping
with her character.

"We will not hurt you, we will not hurt you," said I.

But it was of no use; the old lady refused to be pacified.

Just at this moment Quidd felt a severe blow from behind, which sent him sprawling. I also
received a push or a drive, and a loud laugh burst from those around.

When I turned to see what was the cause of the laughter, what should I observe but Hannibal,
the goat, who had, it appeared, followed his mistress, and, being excited by her cries, dashed
at my schoolfellow in the way described. Several of the spectators now tried to seize the goat,
but he being of extraordinary strength, butted and pushed so vigorously that several measured
their length upon the earth, to the no small merriment of the clownish persons who had collected
together to the burning of the guy.

During all this time Dame Clackett cried out loudly, and in the confusion her chair was upset,
and she became liberated from her duress. As soon as she was free, she laid about on all sides
of her with her stick, pulled off the helmet and jacket in which she had been nearly smothered,
and cried out at the top of her voice:

"I am no guy! I am Dame Clackett! For goodness' sake do not burn me for a witch!"

She, however, kept her apron close in which the money was, and took care not to let the seven-shilling
piece fall out of her mouth.

The mob cheered. It would have been well if this had been all, but no: as soon as ever the
old lady told her story that she had been seized for a guy, an effort was immediately made
to secure the offenders. The constable, who happened to be present, laid hold of me and cousin
Simon; several others were seized by the bystanders; and the whole, with the exception of Quidd,
were dragged off to what in the country is called the goose-house--that is, the cage. Quidd,
lawyer-like, contrived to get out of the scrape, leaving others in it. So we were all put into
the cage, and bolted and barred. It was very dark, and as we were terribly frightened, we all
began to howl most hideously.

As to Quidd, he went homewards, as if nothing had happened, and soon made his reappearance,
prepared for the usual squibbing and cracking, with his pockets full of squibs and crackers.
He was so pleased with the success of the scheme in which he had been so forward an actor that
he determined to have more fun before he went to bed; so he looked about, and it was not long
before he saw a fit object, as he thought.

At the corner of the street leading to the market-place sat poor old Hannah Grimly, as she
was called. She had sold roasted chestnuts on the fifth of November for a score of years, and
many a pinch of gunpowder had been put under the lid of the saucepan upon which the chestnuts
were laid. Quidd determined to have a good explosion, and took the opportunity, while the chestnuts
were being put into his hand, to introduce a packet of gunpowder into the kettle. He thought
to run away before it should ignite, but there being a small hole in the paper, the moment
it touched the fire the whole went off with a loud explosion. Quidd's hand was shattered to
pieces, and he fell stunned with the effects of the powder. He was taken home senseless, and
put to bed.

The rest of the conspirators, including myself, were kept in the cage all night in bitter tears.
The next morning we were taken before the magistrates. The chairman, who happened to be the
very squire who had given us the seven-shilling piece, looked very severely at us, and said:

"This is the most horrible plot I ever heard of--seizing an old woman for a guy! Gentlemen,"
said he to those around him, "if this be permitted none of us are safe."

Some people used to call the magistrates old women, and so this raised a laugh.

He then called to the clerk to look over the Act of Parliament to see what could be the punishment
for such an offence, but found none. Quidd was right--there was no law against seizing an old
woman for a guy. The bench were puzzled what to do. At last Quidd's father said we should be
indicted for stealing his chair, and be put on our trial for robbery and sacrilege--the first
for the abduction of the chair, the second for keeping the old lady from church.

Our fathers and mothers, however, pleaded so eloquently that, after a severe admonition, we
got off upon payment of the costs and a handsome compensation to Dame Clackett. When I reached
home my father took me into the stable and gave me a sound whipping, and at the conclusion
of the flagellation said:

"Now, Peter Parley, I think you will not again seize an old woman for a guy!"

And I never did. Lessons were then considered rather a plague, sugar-plums were still in demand,
holidays continued yet in fashion, and toys were not then made to teach mathematics, nor storybooks
to give instruction in chemistry and navigation. These were very strange times, and there existed
at that period a very idle, greedy, naughty boy, such as we never hear of in the present day.
His father and mother were--no matter who, and he lived--no matter where. His name was Master
No-book, and he seemed to think his eyes were made for nothing but to stare out of the windows,
and his mouth for no other purpose but to eat. This young gentleman hated lessons like mustard,
both of which brought tears into his eyes, and during school hours he sat gazing at his books,
pretending to be busy, while his mind wandered away to wish impatiently for dinner, and to
consider where he could get the nicest pies, pastry, ices, and jellies, while he smacked his
lips at the very thoughts of them.

Whenever Master No-book spoke it was always to ask for something, and you might continually
hear him say in a whining tone of voice: "Father, may I take this piece of cake?" "Aunt Sarah,
will you give me an apple?" "Mother, do send me the whole of that plum-pudding." Indeed, very
frequently, when he did not get permission to gormandize, this naughty glutton helped himself
without leave. Even his dreams were like his waking hours, for he had often a horrible nightmare
about lessons, thinking he was smothered with Greek lexicons or pelted out of the school with
a shower of English grammars, while one night he fancied himself sitting down to devour an
enormous plum-cake, and all on a sudden it became transformed into a Latin dictionary.

One afternoon Master No-book, having played truant all day from school, was lolling on his
mother's best sofa in the drawing-room, with his leather boots tucked up on the satin cushions,
and nothing to do but to suck a few oranges, and nothing to think of but how much sugar to
put upon them, when suddenly an event took place which filled him with astonishment.

A sound of soft music stole into the room, becoming louder and louder the longer he listened,
till at length, in a few moments afterwards, a large hole burst open in the wall of his room,
and there stepped into his presence two magnificent fairies, just arrived from their castles
in the air, to pay him a visit. They had traveled all the way on purpose to have some conversation
with Master No-book, and immediately introduced themselves in a very ceremonious manner.

The fairy Do-nothing was gorgeously dressed with a wreath of flaming gas round her head, a
robe of gold tissue, a necklace of rubies, and a bouquet in her hand of glittering diamonds.
Her cheeks were rouged to the very eyes, her teeth were set in gold, and her hair was of a
most brilliant purple; in short, so fine and fashionable-looking a fairy never was seen in
a drawing-room before. The fairy Teach-all, who followed next, was simply dressed in white
muslin, with bunches of natural flowers in her light-brown hair, and she carried in her hand
a few neat small volumes, which Master No-book looked at with a shudder of aversion.

The two fairies now informed him that they very often invited large parties of children to
spend some time at their palaces, but as they lived in quite an opposite direction, it was
necessary for their young guests to choose which it would be best to visit first; therefore
they had now come to inquire of Master No-book whom he thought it would be most agreeable to
accompany on the present occasion.

"In my house," said the fairy Teach-all, speaking with a very sweet smile and a soft, pleasing
voice, "you shall be taught to find pleasure in every sort of exertion, for I delight in activity
and diligence. My young friends rise at seven every morning, and amuse themselves with working
in a beautiful garden of flowers, rearing whatever fruit they wish to eat, visiting among the
poor, associating pleasantly together, studying the arts and sciences, and learning to know
the world in which they live, and to fulfil the purposes for which they have been brought into
it. In short, all our amusements tend to some useful object, either for our own improvement
or the good of others, and you will grow wiser, better, and happier every day you remain in
the palace of Knowledge."

"But in Castle Needless, where I live," interrupted the fairy Do-nothing, rudely pushing her
companion aside with an angry, contemptuous look, "we never think of exerting ourselves for
anything. You may put your head in your pocket and your hands in your sides as long as you
choose to stay. No one is ever asked a question, that he may be spared the trouble of answering.
We lead the most fashionable life imaginable, for nobody speaks to anybody. Each of my visitors
is quite an exclusive, and sits with his back to as many of the company as possible, in the
most comfortable arm-chair that can be contrived. There, if you are only so good as to take
the trouble of wishing for anything, it is yours without even turning an eye round to look
where it comes from. Dresses are provided of the most magnificent kind, which go on themselves,
without your having the smallest annoyance with either buttons or strings; games which you
can play without an effort of thought; and dishes dressed by a French cook, smoking hot under
your nose, from morning till night; while any rain we have is either made of lemonade or lavender-water,
and in winter it generally snows iced punch for an hour during the forenoon."

Nobody need be told which fairy Master No-book preferred, and quite charmed at his own good
fortune in receiving so agreeable an invitation, he eagerly gave his hand to the splendid new
acquaintance who promised him so much pleasure and ease, and gladly proceeded in a carriage
lined with velvet, stuffed with downy pillows, and drawn by milk-white swans, to that magnificent
residence, Castle Needless, which was lighted by a thousand windows during the day, and by
a million of lamps every night.

Here Master No-book enjoyed a constant holiday and a constant feast, while a beautiful lady
covered with jewels was ready to tell him stories from morning till night, and servants waited
to pick up his playthings if they fell, or to draw out his purse or his pocket-handkerchief
when he wished to use them.

Thus Master No-book lay dozing for hours and days on rich embroidered cushions, never stirring
from his place, but admiring the view of trees covered with the richest burnt almonds, grottoes
of sugar-candy, a jet d'eau of champagne, a wide sea which tasted of sugar instead of salt,
and a bright, clear pond, filled with gold fish that let themselves be caught whenever he pleased.
Nothing could be more complete, and yet, very strange to say, Master No-book did not seem particularly
happy. This appears exceedingly unreasonable, when so much trouble was taken to please him;
but the truth is that every day he became more fretful and peevish. No sweetmeats were worth
the trouble of eating, nothing was pleasant to play at, and in the end he wished it were possible
to sleep all day, as well as all night.

Not a hundred miles from the fairy Do-nothing's palace there lived a most cruel monster called
the giant Snap-'em-up, who looked, when he stood up, like the tall steeple of a great church,
raising his head so high that he could peep over the loftiest mountains, and was obliged to
climb up a ladder to comb his own hair.

Every morning regularly this prodigiously great giant walked round the world before breakfast
for an appetite, after which he made tea in a large lake, used the sea as a slop-basin, and
boiled his kettle on Mount Vesuvius. He lived in great style, and his dinners were most magnificent,
consisting very often of an elephant roasted whole, ostrich patties, a tiger smothered in onions,
stewed lions, and whale soup; but for a side-dish his greatest favorite consisted of little
boys, as fat as possible, fried in crumbs of bread, with plenty of pepper and salt.

No children were so well fed or in such good condition for eating as those in the fairy Do-nothing's
garden, who was a very particular friend of the giant Snap-'em-up's, and who sometimes laughingly
said she would give him a license, and call her own garden his "preserve," because she always
allowed him to help himself, whenever he pleased, to as many of her visitors as he chose, without
taking the trouble to even count them; and in return for such extreme civility, the giant very
frequently invited her to dinner.

Snap-'em-up's favorite sport was to see how many brace of little boys he could bag in a morning;
so, in passing along the streets, he peeped into all the drawing-rooms, without having occasion
to get upon tiptoe, and picked up every young gentleman who was idly looking out of the windows,
and even a few occasionally who were playing truant from school; but busy children seemed always
somehow quite out of his reach.

One day, when Master No-book felt even more lazy, more idle, and more miserable than ever,
he lay beside a perfect mountain of toys and cakes, wondering what to wish for next, and hating
the very sight of everything and everybody. At last he gave so loud a yawn of weariness and
disgust that his jaw very nearly fell out of joint, and then he sighed so deeply that the giant
Snap-'em-up heard the sound as he passed along the road after breakfast, and instantly stepped
into the garden, with his glass at his eye, to see what was the matter. Immediately, on observing
a large, fat, overgrown boy, as round as a dumpling, lying on a bed of roses, he gave a cry
of delight, followed by a gigantic peal of laughter, which was heard three miles off, and picking
up Master No-book between his finger and thumb, with a pinch that very nearly broke his ribs,
he carried him rapidly towards his own castle, while the fairy Do-nothing laughingly shook
her head as he passed, saying:

"That little man does me great credit. He has only been fed for a week, and is as fat already
as a prize ox. What a dainty morsel he will be! When do you dine to-day, in case I should have
time to look in upon you?"

On reaching home the giant immediately hung up Master No-book by the hair of his head, on a
prodigious hook in the larder, having first taken some large lumps of nasty suet, forcing them
down his throat to make him become still fatter, and then stirring the fire, that he might
be almost melted with heat, to make his liver grow larger. On a shelf quite near Master No-book
perceived the bodies of six other boys, whom he remembered to have seen fattening in the fairy
Do-nothing's garden, while he recollected how some of them had rejoiced at the thoughts of
leading a long, useless, idle life, with no one to please but themselves.

The enormous cook now seized hold of Master No-book, brandishing her knife with an aspect of
horrible determination, intending to kill him, while he took the trouble of screaming and kicking
in the most desperate manner, when the giant turned gravely round, and said that, as pigs were
considered a much greater dainty when whipped to death than killed in any other way, he meant
to see whether children might not be improved by it also; therefore she might leave that great
hog of a boy till he had time to try the experiment, especially as his own appetite would be
improved by the exercise. This was a dreadful prospect for the unhappy prisoner, but meantime
it prolonged his life a few hours, as he was immediately hung up in the larder and left to
himself. There, in torture of mind and body, like a fish upon a hook, the wretched boy began
at last to reflect seriously upon his former ways, and to consider what a happy home he might
have had, if he could only have been satisfied with business and pleasure succeeding each other,
like day and night, while lessons might have come in as a pleasant sauce to his play-hours,
and his play-hours as a sauce to his lessons.

In the midst of many reflections, which were all very sensible, though rather too late, Master
No-book's attention became attracted by the sound of many voices laughing, talking, and singing,
which caused him to turn his eyes in a new direction, when, for the first time, he observed
that the fairy Teach-all's garden lay upon a beautiful sloping bank not far off. There a crowd
of merry, noisy, rosy-cheeked boys were busily employed, and seemed happier than the day was
long, while poor Master No-book watched them during his own miserable hours, envying the enjoyment
with which they raked the flower-borders, gathered the fruit, carried baskets of vegetables
to the poor, worked with carpenter's tools, drew pictures, shot with bows-and-arrows, played
at cricket, and then sat in the sunny arbors learning their tasks, or talking agreeably together,
till at length, a dinner-bell having been rung, the whole party sat merrily down with hearty
appetites and cheerful good humor, to an entertainment of plain roast meat and pudding, where
the fairy Teach-all presided herself, and helped her guests moderately to as much as was good
for each.

Large tears rolled down the cheeks of Master No-book while watching this scene, and remembering
that if he had known what was best for him, he might have been as happy as the happiest of
these excellent boys, instead of suffering ennui and weariness, as he had done at the fairy
Do-nothing's, ending in a miserable death. But his attention was soon after most alarmingly
roused by hearing the giant Snap-'em-up again in conversation with his cook, who said that,
if he wished for a good large dish of scolloped children at dinner, it would be necessary to
catch a few more, as those he had already provided would scarcely be a mouthful.

As the giant kept very fashionable hours, and always waited dinner for himself till nine o'clock,
there was still plenty of time; so, with a loud grumble about the trouble, he seized a large
basket in his hand, and set off at a rapid pace towards the fairy Teach-all's garden. It was
very seldom that Snap-'em-up ventured to think of foraging in this direction, as he never once
succeeded in carrying off a single captive from the enclosure, it was so well fortified and
so bravely defended; but on this occasion, being desperately hungry, he felt as bold as a lion,
and walked, with outstretched hands, straight towards the fairy Teach-all's dinner-table, taking
such prodigious strides that he seemed almost as if he would trample on himself.

A cry of consternation arose the instant this tremendous giant appeared, and, as usual on such
occasions, when he had made the same attempt before, a dreadful battle took place. Fifty active
little boys bravely flew upon the enemy, armed with their dinner-knives, and looked like a
nest of hornets, stinging him in every direction, till he roared with pain, and would have
run away; but the fairy Teach-all, seeing his intention, rushed forward with the carving-knife,
and brandishing it high over her head, she most courageously stabbed him to the heart.

If a great mountain had fallen to the earth it would have seemed like nothing in comparison
with the giant Snap-em-up, who crushed two or three houses to powder beneath him, and upset
several fine monuments that were to have made people remembered for ever. But all this would
have seemed scarcely worth mentioning had it not been for a still greater event which occurred
on the occasion, no less than the death of the fairy Do-nothing, who had been indolently looking
on at this great battle without taking the trouble to interfere, or even to care who was victorious;
but being also lazy about running away, when the giant fell, his sword came with so violent
a stroke on her head that she instantly expired.

Thus, luckily for the whole world, the fairy Teach-all got possession of immense property,
which she proceeded without delay to make the best use of in her power.

In the first place, however, she lost no time in liberating Master No-book from his hook in
the larder, and gave him a lecture on activity, moderation, and good conduct, which he never
afterwards forgot; and it was astonishing to see the change that took place immediately in
his whole thoughts and actions. From this very hour Master No-book became the most diligent,
active, happy boy in the fairy Teach-all's garden; and on returning home a month afterwards,
he astonished all the masters at school by his extraordinary reformation. The most difficult
lessons were a pleasure to him, he scarcely ever stirred without a book in his hand, never
lay on a sofa again, would scarcely even sit on a chair with a back to it, but preferred a
three-legged stool, detested holidays, never thought any exertion a trouble, preferred climbing
over the top of a hill to creeping round the bottom, always ate the plainest food in very small
quantities, joined a temperance society, and never tasted a morsel till he had worked very
hard and got an appetite.

Not long after this an old uncle, who had formerly been ashamed of Master No-book's indolence
and gluttony, became so pleased at the wonderful change that on his death he left him a magnificent
estate, desiring that he should take his name; therefore, instead of being any longer one of
the No-book family, he is now called Sir Timothy Blue-stocking, a pattern to the whole country
around for the good he does to everyone, and especially for his extraordinary activity, appearing
as if he could do twenty things at once. Though generally very good-natured and agreeable,
Sir Timothy is occasionally observed in a violent passion, laying about him with his walking-stick
in the most terrific manner, and beating little boys within an inch of their lives; but on
inquiry it invariably appears that he has found them out to be lazy, idle, or greedy; for all
the industrious boys in the parish are sent to get employment from him, while he assures them
that they are far happier breaking stones on the road than if they were sitting idly in a drawing-room
with nothing to do.

THE INQUISITIVE GIRL

Dr. Hammond was a physician in great practice in the West of England. He resided in a small
market-town and his family consisted of one son, named Charles, and two daughters, Louisa and
Sophy.

Sophy possessed many amiable qualities, and did not want for sense, but every better feeling
was lost in her extreme inquisitiveness. Her faculties were all occupied in peeping and prying
about, and, provided she could gratify her own curiosity, she never cared how much vexation
she caused to others.

This propensity began when she was so very young that it had become a habit before her parents
perceived it. She was a very little creature when she was once nearly squeezed to death between
two double doors as she was peeping through the keyhole of one of them to see who was in the
drawing-room; and another time she was locked up for several hours in a closet in which she
had hid herself for the purpose of overhearing what her mother was saying to one of the servants.

When Sophy was eleven and her sister about sixteen years old their mother died. Louisa was
placed at the head of her father's house, and the superintendence of Sophy's education necessarily
devolved on her. The care of such a family was a great charge for a young person of Miss Hammond's
age, and more especially as her father was obliged to be so much from home that she could not
always have his counsel and advice even when she most needed it. By this means she fell into
an injudicious mode of treating her sister.

If Louisa received a note she carefully locked it up, and never spoke of its contents before
Sophy. If a message was brought to her she always went out of the room to receive it, and never
suffered the servant to speak in her sister's hearing. When any visitors came Louisa commonly
sent Sophy out of the room, or if they were intimate friends she would converse with them in
whispers; in short, it was her chief study that everything which passed in the family should
be a secret from Sophy. Alas! this procedure, instead of repressing Sophy's curiosity, only
made it the more keen; her eyes and ears were always on the alert, and what she could not see,
hear, or thoroughly comprehend she made out by guesses.

The worst consequence of Louisa's conduct was that as Sophy had no friend and companion in
her sister, who treated her with such constant suspicion and reserve, she necessarily was induced
to find a friend and companion among the servants, and she selected the housemaid Sally, a
good-natured, well-intentioned girl, but silly and ignorant and inquisitive like herself, and
it may be easily supposed how much mischief these two foolish creatures occasioned, not only
in the family, but also among their neighbors.

It happened soon after, that for an offence which was the cause of very great vexation to her
brother, and was the occasion of his being for a time deprived of the friendship of Sir Henry
and Lady Askham, two of Dr. Hammond's nearest and most intimate neighbors, her father ordered
Sophy, as a still further punishment, to be locked up in her own room till the Sunday following.
This was on Friday, and Sophy had two days of solitude and imprisonment before her. The first
day she passed very dismally, but yet not unprofitably, for she felt truly ashamed and sorry
for her fault, and made many good resolutions of endeavoring to cure herself of her mischievous
propensity. The second day she began to be somewhat more composed, and by degrees she was able
to amuse herself with watching the people in the street, which was overlooked by the windows
of her apartment, and she began, almost unconsciously to herself, to indulge in her old habit
of trying to find out what everybody was doing, and in guessing where they were going.

She had not long been engaged in watching her neighbors before her curiosity was excited by
the appearance of a servant on horseback, who rode up to the door, and, after giving a little
three-cornered note to Dr. Hammond's footman, rode off. The servant she knew to be Mrs. Arden's,
an intimate friend of her father, and the note she conjectured was an invitation to dinner,
and the guessing what day the invitation was for, and who were to be the company, and whether
she was included in the invitation, was occupying her busy fancy, when she saw her sister going
out of the house with the three-cornered note in her hand, and cross the street to Mr. McNeal's
stocking shop, which was opposite. Almost immediately afterwards Mr. McNeal's shopman came
out of the shop, and, running down the street, was presently out of sight, but soon returned
with Mr. McNeal himself. She saw Louisa reading the note to Mr. McNeal, and in a few minutes
afterwards return home. Here was a matter of wonder and conjecture. Sophy forgot all her good
resolutions, and absolutely wearied herself with her useless curiosity.

At length the term of her imprisonment was over, and Sophy was restored to the society of her
family. At first she kept a tolerable guard over herself. Once she saw her father and sister
whispering, and did not, though she longed much to do it, hold her breath that she might hear
what they were saying. Another time she passed Charles's door when it was ajar and the little
study open, and she had so much self-command that she passed by without peeping in, and she
began to think she was cured of her faults. But in reality this was far from being the case,
and whenever she recollected Mrs. Arden's mysterious note she felt her inquisitive propensities
as strong as ever. Her eyes and ears were always on the alert, in hopes of obtaining some clue
to the knowledge she coveted, and if Mrs, Arden's or Mr. McNeal's names were mentioned she
listened with trembling anxiety in the hope of hearing some allusion to the note.

At last, when she had almost given up the matter in despair, an unlooked-for chance put her
in possession of a fragment of this very note to which she attached so much importance.

One day Louisa wanted to wind a skein of silk, and in looking for a piece of paper to wind
it upon she opened her writing-box, and took out Mrs. Arden's note. Sophy knew it again in
an instant from its three-cornered shape. She saw her sister tear the note in two, throw one-half
under the grate, and fold the other part up to wind her silk upon. Sophy kept her eye upon
the paper that lay under the grate in the greatest anxiety, lest a coal should drop upon it
and destroy it, when it seemed almost within her grasp. Louisa was called out of the room,
and Sophy, overpowered by the greatness of the temptation, forgot all the good resolutions
she had so lately made, and at the risk of setting fire to her sleeve, snatched the paper from
among the ashes, and concealed it in her pocket. She then flew to her own room to examine it
at her ease. The note had been torn the lengthway of the paper, and that part of it of which
Sophy had possessed herself contained the first half of each line of the note. Bolting her
door for fear of interruption, she read, with trembling impatience, as follows:

        Will you
  be kind enough to go to
  Mr. McNeal, and tell him
  he has made a great mistake
  the last stockings he sent;
  charging them as silk) he has cheated
  of several pounds.--I am sorry to say
  that he has behaved very ill
  And Mr. Arden tells me that
  it must end in his being hanged
  I am exceedingly grieved
  but fear this will be the end

When Sophy had read these broken sentences she fancied that she fully comprehended the purport
of the whole note, and she now saw the reason of her sister's hastening to Mr. McNeal's immediately
on the receipt of the note, and of the hurry in which he had been summoned back to his shop.
It appeared very clear to her that he had defrauded Mrs. Arden of a considerable sum of money,
and that he was no longer that honest tradesman he had been supposed. The weight of this important
discovery quite overburdened her, and, forgetful of her past punishment, and regardless of
future consequences, she imparted the surprising secret to Sally. Sally was not one who could
keep such a piece of news to herself; it was therefore soon circulated through half the town
that Mr. McNeal had defrauded Mrs. Arden, and that Mr. Arden declared he would have him hanged
for it. Several persons in consequence avoided Mr. McNeal's shop, who saw his customers forsaking
him without being able to know why they did so. Thus the conduct of this inconsiderate girl
took away the good name of an honest tradesman, on no better foundation than her own idle conjectures,
drawn from the torn fragments of a letter.

Mr. McNeal at length became informed of the injurious report that was circulated about him.
He immediately went to Mrs. Arden to tell her of the report, and to ask her if any inadvertency
of his own in regard to her dealings at his shop occasioned her speaking so disadvantageously
of him. Mrs. Arden was much astonished at what he told her, as she might well be, and assured
him that she had never either spoken of him or thought of him but as thoroughly an honorable
and honest tradesman. Mrs. Arden was exceedingly hurt that her name should be attached to such
a cruel calumny, and, on consulting with Sir Henry Askham, it was agreed that he and Mrs. Arden
should make it their business to trace it back to its authors. They found no real difficulty
in tracing it back to Sally, Dr. Hammond's servant. She was accordingly sent for to Mr. McNeal's,
where Sir Henry Askham and Mr. Arden, with some other gentlemen, were assembled on this charitable
investigation. Sally, on being questioned who had told her of the report, replied, without
hesitation, that she had been told by Miss Sophy, who had seen all the particulars in Mrs.
Arden's handwriting.

Mr. Arden was greatly astonished at hearing this assertion, and felt confident that the whole
must have originated from some strange blunder. He and the other gentlemen immediately proceeded
to Dr. Hammond's, and having explained their business to him, desired to see Sophy. She, on
being asked, confirmed what Sally had said, adding that to satisfy them she could show them
Mrs. Arden's own words, and she accordingly produced the fragment of the note. Miss Hammond,
the instant she saw the paper recollected it again, and winding off the silk from the other
half of Mrs. Arden's note, presented it to Mr. Arden, who, laying the two pieces of paper together
read as follows:

     "MY DEAR MISS HAMMOND,--Will you as soon as you receive this
     be kind enough to go to your opposite neighbor, Mr. McNeal,
     and tell him I find by looking at his bill he has made a
     great mistake as to the price of the last stockings he sent;
     and it seems to me (by not charging them as silk) he has
     cheated himself, as he'll see, of several pounds.--I am sorry
     to say of our new dog, that he has behaved very ill and
     worried two sheep, and Mr. Arden tells me he very much fears
     it must end in his being hanged or he'll kill all the flock.
     I am exceedingly grieved, for he is a noble animal, but fear
     this will be the end of my poor dog.

     "I am, dear Louisa, yours truly

     "MARY ARDEN."

Thus by the fortunate preservation of the last half of the note the whole affair was cleared
up, Mrs. Arden's character vindicated from the charge of being a defamer, and Mr. McNeal from
all suspicion of dishonesty. And all their friends were pleased and satisfied. But how did
Sophy feel? She did feel at last both remorse and humiliation. She had no one to blame but
herself; she had no one to take her part, for even her father and her brother considered it
due to public justice that she should make a public acknowledgment of her fault to Mr. McNeal,
and to ask his pardon.

BUSY IDLENESS

By JANE TAYLOR

Mrs. Dawson being obliged to leave home for six weeks, her daughters, Charlotte and Caroline,
received permission to employ the time of her absence as they pleased; that is, she did not
require of them the usual strict attention to particular hours and particular studies, but
allowed them to choose their own employments--only recommending them to make a good use of
the license, and apprising them, that, on her return, she should require an exact account of
the manner in which the interval had been employed.

The carriage that conveyed their mother away was scarcely out of hearing, when Charlotte, delighted
with her freedom, hastened upstairs to the schoolroom, where she looked around on books, globes,
maps, drawings, to select some new employment for the morning. Long before she had decided
upon any, her sister had quietly seated herself at her accustomed station, thinking that she
could do nothing better than finish the French exercise she had begun the day before. Charlotte,
however, declined attending to French that day, and after much indecision, and saying "I have
a great mind to" three several times without finishing the sentence, she at last took down
a volume of Cowper, and read in different parts for about half an hour. Then throwing it aside,
she said she had a great mind to put the bookshelves in order--a business which she commenced
with great spirit. But in the course of her laudable undertaking, she met with a manuscript
in shorthand; whereupon she exclaimed to her sister, "Caroline, don't you remember that old
Mr. Henderson once promised he would teach us shorthand? How much I should like to learn! Only,
mamma thought we had not time. But now, this would be such a good opportunity. I am sure I
could learn it well in six weeks; and how convenient it would be! One could take down sermons,
or anything; and I could make Rachel learn, and then how very pleasant it would be to write
to each other in shorthand! Indeed, it would be convenient in a hundred ways." So saying, she
ran upstairs, without any further delay, and putting on her hat and spencer, set off to old
Mr. Henderson's.

Mr. Henderson happened to be at dinner. Nevertheless, Charlotte obtained admittance on the
plea of urgent business; but she entered his apartment so much out of breath, and in such apparent
agitation, that the old gentleman, rising hastily from table, and looking anxiously at her
over his spectacles, inquired in a tremulous tone what was the matter. When, therefore, Charlotte
explained her business, he appeared a little disconcerted; but having gently reproved her for
her undue eagerness, he composedly resumed his knife and fork, though his hand shook much more
than usual during the remainder of his meal. However, being very good-natured, as soon as he
had dined he cheerfully gave Charlotte her first lesson in shorthand, promising to repeat it
regularly every morning.

Charlotte returned home in high glee. She at this juncture considered shorthand as one of the
most useful, and decidedly the most interesting of acquirements; and she continued to exercise
herself in it all the rest of the day. She was exceedingly pleased at being able already to
write two or three words which neither her sister nor even her father could decipher. For three
successive mornings Charlotte punctually kept her appointment with Mr. Henderson; but on the
fourth she sent a shabby excuse to her kind master; and, if the truth must be told, he from
that time saw no more of his scholar. Now the cause of this desertion was twofold: first, and
principally, her zeal for shorthand, which for the last eight-and-forty hours had been sensibly
declining in its temperature, was, on the above morning, within half a degree of freezing point;
and, second, a new and far more arduous and important undertaking had by this time suggested
itself to her mind. Like many young persons of desultory inclinations, Charlotte often amused
herself with writing verses; and it now occurred to her that an abridged history of England
in verse was still a desideratum in literature. She commenced this task with her usual diligence;
but was somewhat discouraged in the outset by the difficulty of finding a rhyme to Saxon, whom
she indulged the unpatriotic wish that the Danes had laid a tax on. But, though she got over
this obstacle by a new construction of the line, she found these difficulties occur so continually
that she soon felt a more thorough disgust at this employment than at the preceding one. So
the epic stopped short, some hundred years before the Norman conquest. Difficulty, which quickens
the ardor of industry, always damps, and generally extinguishes, the false zeal of caprice
and versatility.

Charlotte's next undertaking was, to be sure, a rapid descent from the last in the scale of
dignity. She now thought, that, by working very hard during the remainder of the time, she
should be able to accomplish a patch-work counterpane, large enough for her own little tent
bed; and the ease of this employment formed a most agreeable contrast in her mind with the
extreme difficulty of the last. Accordingly, as if commissioned with a search warrant, she
ransacked all her mother's drawers, bags, and bundles in quest of new pieces; and these spoils
proving very insufficient, she set off to tax all her friends, and to tease all the linen drapers
in the town for their odds and ends, urging that she wanted some particularly. As she was posting
along the street on this business, she espied at a distance a person whom she had no wish to
encounter, namely, old Mr. Henderson. To avoid the meeting she crossed over. But this maneuver
did not succeed; for no sooner had they come opposite to each other, than, to her great confusion,
he called out across the street, in his loud and tremulous voice, and shaking his stick at
her, "How d'ye do, Miss Shorthand? I thought how it would be! Oh, fie! Oh, fie!"

Charlotte hurried on; and her thoughts soon returned to the idea of the splendid radiating
star which she designed for the centerpiece of her counterpane. While she was arranging the
different patterns, and forming the alternations of light and shade, her interest continued
nearly unabated; but when she came to the practical part of sewing piece to piece with unvarying
sameness, it began, as usual, to flag. She sighed several times, and cast many disconsolate
looks at the endless hexagons and octagons, before she indulged any distinct idea of relinquishing
her task. At length, however, it did forcibly occur to her that, after all, she was not obliged
to go on with it; and that, really, patchwork was a thing that was better done by degrees,
when one happens to want a job, than to be finished all at once. So, with this thought (which
would have been a very good one if it had occurred in proper time), she suddenly drew out her
needle, thrust all her pieces, arranged and unarranged, into a drawer, and began to meditate
a new project.

Fortunately, just at this juncture some young ladies of their acquaintance called upon Charlotte
and Caroline. They were attempting to establish a society among their young friends for working
for the poor, and came to request their assistance. Caroline very cheerfully entered into the
design; but as for Charlotte, nothing could exceed the forwardness of her zeal. She took it
up so warmly that Caroline's appeared, in comparison, only lukewarm. It was proposed that each
member of the society should have an equal proportion of the work to do at her own house; but
when the articles came to be distributed, Charlotte, in the heat of her benevolence, desired
that a double portion might be allotted to her. Some of the younger ones admired her industrious
intentions, but the better judging advised her not to undertake too much at once. However,
she would not be satisfied till her request was complied with. When the parcels of work arrived,
Charlotte with exultation seized the larger one, and without a minute's delay commenced her
charitable labors. The following morning she rose at four o'clock, to resume the employment;
and not a little self-complacency did she feel, when, after nearly two hours' hard work, she
still heard Caroline breathing in a sound sleep. But, alas! Charlotte soon found that work
is work, of whatever nature, or for whatever purpose. She now inwardly regretted that she had
asked for more than her share; and the cowardly thought that after all she was not obliged
to do it next occurred to her. For the present, therefore, she squeezed all the things, done
and undone, into what she called her "Dorcas bag;" and to banish unpleasant thoughts, she opened
the first book that happened to lie within reach. It proved to be "An Introduction to Botany."
Of this she had not read more than a page and a half before she determined to collect some
specimens herself; and having found a blank copy-book she hastened into the garden, where,
gathering a few common flowers, she proceeded to dissect them, not, it is to be feared, with
much scientific nicety. Perhaps as many as three pages of this copy-book were bespread with
her specimens before she discovered that botany was a dry study.

It would be too tedious to enumerate all the subsequent ephemeral undertakings which filled
up the remainder of the six weeks. At the expiration of that time Mrs. Dawson returned. On
the next morning after her arrival she reminded her daughters of the account she expected of
their employments during her absence, and desired them to set out on two tables in the schoolroom
everything they had done that could be exhibited, together with the books they had been reading.
Charlotte would gladly have been excused her part of the exhibition; but this was not permitted;
and she reluctantly followed her sister to make the preparation.

When the two tables were spread, their mother was summoned to attend. Caroline's, which was
first examined, contained, first, her various exercises in the different branches of study,
regularly executed the same as usual. And there were papers placed in the books she was reading
in school hours, to show how far she had proceeded in them. Besides these, she had read in
her leisure time, in French, Florian's "Numa Pompilius," and in English, Mrs. More's "Practical
Piety," and some part of Johnson's "Lives of the Poets." All the needlework which had been
left to do or not, at her option, was neatly finished; and her parcel of linen for the poor
was also completely and well done. The only instance in which Caroline had availed herself
of her mother's license, was that she had prolonged her drawing lessons a little every day,
in order to present her mother with a pretty pair of screens, with flowers copied from nature.
These were, last of all, placed on the table with an affectionate note, requesting her acceptance
of them.

Mrs. Dawson, having carefully examined this table, proceeded to the other, which was quite
piled up with different articles. Here, amid the heap, were Charlotte's three pages of shorthand;
several scraps of paper containing fragments of her poetical history; the piece (not large
enough for a doll's cradle) of her patchwork counterpane; her botanical specimens; together
with the large unfinished pile out of the Dorcas bag, many of the articles of which were begun,
but not one quite finished. There was a baby's cap with no border, a frock body without sleeves,
and the skirt only half hemmed at the bottom; and slides, tapes, and buttonholes were all,
without exception, omitted. After these, followed a great variety of thirds, halves, and quarters
of undertakings, each perhaps good in itself, but quite useless in its unfinished state.

The examination being at length ended, Mrs. Dawson retired, without a single comment, to her
dressing-room; where, in about an hour afterwards, she summoned the girls to attend her. Here
also were two tables laid out, with several articles on each. Their mother then leading Caroline
to the first, told her that, as the reward of her industry and perseverance, the contents of
the table were her own. Here, with joyful surprise, she beheld, first, a little gold watch,
which Mrs. Dawson said she thought a suitable present for one who had made a good use of her
time; a small telescope next appeared; and lastly, Paley's "Natural Theology," neatly bound.
Charlotte was then desired to take possession of the contents of the other table, which were
considerably more numerous. The first prize she drew out was a very beautiful French fan; but
upon opening it, it stretched out in an oblong shape, for want of the pin to confine the sticks
at bottom. Then followed a new parasol; but when unfurled there was no catch to confine it,
so that it would not remain spread. A penknife handle without a blade, and the blade without
the handle, next presented themselves to her astonished gaze. In great confusion she then unrolled
a paper which discovered a telescope apparently like her sister's; but on applying it to her
eye, she found it did not contain a single lens--so that it was no better than a roll of pasteboard.
She was, however, greatly encouraged to discover that the last remaining article was a watch;
for, as she heard it tick, she felt no doubt that this at least was complete; but upon examination
she discovered that there was no hour hand, the minute hand alone pursuing its lonely and useless
track.

Charlotte, whose conscience had very soon explained to her the moral of all this, now turned
from the tantalizing table in confusion, and burst into an agony of tears. Caroline wept also;
and Mrs. Dawson, after an interval of silence, thus addressed her daughters:

"It is quite needless for me to explain my reasons for making you such presents, Charlotte.
I assure you your papa and I have had a very painful employment the past hour in spoiling them
all for you. If I had found on your table in the schoolroom any one thing that had been properly
finished, you would have received one complete present to answer it; but this you know was
not the case. I should be very glad if this disappointment should teach you what I have hitherto
vainly endeavored to impress upon you--that as all those things, pretty or useful as they are
in themselves, are rendered totally useless for want of completeness, so exertion without perseverance
is no better than busy idleness. That employment does not deserve the name of industry which
requires the stimulus of novelty to keep it going. Those who will only work so long as they
are amused will do no more good in the world, either to themselves or others, than those who
refuse to work at all. If I had required you to pass the six weeks of my absence in bed or
in counting your fingers, you would, I suppose, have thought it a sad waste of time; and yet
I appeal to you whether (with the exception of an hour or two of needlework) the whole mass
of articles on your table could produce anything more useful. And thus, my dears, may life
be squandered away, in a succession of busy nothings.

"I have now a proposal to make to you. These presents, which you are to take possession of
as they are, I advise you to lay by carefully. Whenever you can show me anything that you have
begun, and voluntarily finished, you may at the same time bring with you one of these things,
beginning with those of least value, to which I will immediately add the part that is deficient.
Thus, by degrees, you may have them all completed; and if by this means you should acquire
the wise and virtuous habit of perseverance, it will be far more valuable to you than the richest
present you could possibly receive." No; her father's name was Meanwell; and he was for many
years a considerable farmer in the parish where Margery was born; but by the misfortunes which
he met with in business, and the wicked persecutions of Sir Timothy Gripe, and an overgrown
farmer called Graspall, he was effectually ruined.

The case was thus: The parish of Mould well, where they lived, had for many ages been let by
the lord of the manor in twelve different farms, in which the tenants lived comfortably, brought
up large families, and carefully supported the poor people who labored for them, until the
estate by marriage and by death came into the hands of Sir Timothy.

This, gentleman, who loved himself better than all his neighbors, thought it was less trouble
to write one receipt for his rent than twelve; and Farmer Graspall offering to take all the
farms as the leases expired, Sir Timothy agreed with him, and in process of time he was possessed
of every farm but that occupied by little Margery's father, which he also wanted; for as Mr.
Meanwell was a charitable, good man, he stood up for the poor at the parish meetings, and was
unwilling to have them oppressed by Sir Timothy and this avaricious farmer. Judge, O kind,
humane, and courteous reader, what a terrible situation the poor must be in, when this covetous
man was perpetual overseer, and everything for their maintenance was drawn from his hard heart
and cruel hand. But he was not only perpetual overseer, but perpetual churchwarden; and judge,
O ye Christians, what state the church must be in, when supported by a man without religion
or virtue. He was also perpetual surveyor of the highways, and what sort of roads he kept up
for the convenience of travelers, those best knew who have had the misfortune to pass through
that parish. Complaints indeed were made, but to what purpose are complaints, when brought
against a man who can hunt, drink, and smoke, without the lord of the manor, who is also the
justice of peace?

The opposition which Little Margery's father made to this man's tyranny gave offense to Sir
Timothy, who endeavored to force him out of his farm; and, to oblige him to throw up the lease,
ordered both a brick-kiln and a dog kennel to be erected in the farmer's orchard. This was
contrary to law, and a suit was commenced, in which Margery's father got the better. The same
offense was again committed three different times, and as many actions brought, in all of which
the farmer had a verdict, and costs paid him; but notwithstanding these advantages, the law
was so expensive, that he was ruined in the contest, and obliged to give up all he had to his
creditors; which effectually answered the purpose of Sir Timothy, who erected those nuisances
in the farmer's orchard with that intention. Ah, my dear reader, we brag of liberty, and boast
of our laws; but the blessings of the one, and the protection of the other, seldom fall to
the lot of the poor; and especially when a rich man is their adversary. How, in the name-of
goodness, can a poor wretch obtain redress, when thirty pounds are insufficient to try his
cause? Where is he to find money to fee counsel, or how can he plead his cause himself (even
if he was permitted) when our laws are so obscure and so multiplied that an abridgment of them
cannot be contained in fifty volumes folio?

As soon as Mr. Meanwell had called together his creditors, Sir Timothy seized for a year's
rent, and turned the farmer, his wife, Little Margery, and her brother out of doors, without
any of the necessaries of life to support them.

This elated the heart of Mr. Graspall, this crowned his hopes, and filled the measure of his
iniquity; for, besides gratifying his revenge, this man's overthrow gave him the sole dominion
over the poor, whom he depressed and abused in a manner too horrible to mention.

Margery's father flew into another parish for succor, and all those who were able to move left
their dwellings and sought employment elsewhere, as they found it would be impossible to live
under the tyranny of two such people. The very old, the very lame, and the blind were obliged
to stay behind, and whether they were starved, or what became of them, history does not say;
but the characters of the great Sir Timothy, and the avaricious tenant, were so infamous, that
nobody would work for them by the day, and servants were afraid to engage themselves by the
year, lest any unforseen accident should leave them parishioners in a place where they knew
they must perish miserably; so that great part of the land lay untilled for some years, which
was deemed a just reward for such diabolical proceedings.

But what, says the reader, can occasion all this? do you intend this for children? Permit me
to inform you, that this is not the book, sir, mentioned in the title, but an introduction
to that book; and it is intended, sir, not for that sort of children, but for children of six
feet high, of which, as my friend has justly observed, there are many millions in the kingdom;
and these reflections, sir, have been rendered necessary by the unaccountable and diabolical
scheme which many gentlemen now give in to, of laying a number of farms into one, and very
often a whole parish into one farm; which in the end must reduce the common people to a stage
of vassalage, worse than that under the barons of old, or of the clans in Scotland, and will
in time depopulate the kingdom. But as you are tired of the subject, I shall take myself away,
and you may visit Little Margery.

I

HOW AND ABOUT LITTLE MARGERY AND HER BROTHER

Care and discontent shortened the days of Little Margery's father. He was forced from his family,
and seized with a violent fever in a place where Dr. James's powder was not to be had, and
where he died miserably. Margery's poor mother survived the loss of her husband but a few days,
and died of a broken heart, leaving Margery and her little brother to the wide world; but,
poor woman, it would have melted your heart to have seen how frequently she heaved her head,
while she lay speechless, to survey with languishing looks her little orphans, as much as to
say, "Do, Tommy, do, Margery, come with me." They cried, poor things, and she sighed away her
soul; and I hope is happy.

It would both have excited your pity, and have done your heart good, to have seen how these
two little ones were so fond of each other, and how hand in hand they trotted about.

They were both very ragged, and Tommy had no shoes, and Margery had but one. They had nothing,
poor things, to support them (not being in their own parish) but what they picked from the
hedges, or got from the poor people, and they lay every night in a barn. Their relations took
no notice of them; no, they were rich, and ashamed to own such a poor little ragged girl as
Margery, and such a dirty little curly-pated boy as Tommy. Our relations and friends seldom
take notice of us when we are poor; but as we grow rich they grow fond. And this will always
be the case, while people love money better than they do God Almighty. But such wicked folks
who love nothing but money, and are proud and despise the poor, never come to any good in the
end, as we shall see by and by.

II

HOW AND ABOUT MR. SMITH

Mr. Smith was a very worthy clergyman, who lived in the parish where Little Margery and Tommy
were born; and having a relation come to see him, who was a charitable, good man, he sent for
these children to come to him. The gentleman ordered Little Margery a new pair of shoes, gave
Mr. Smith some money to buy her clothes, and said he would take Tommy and make him a little sailor.

After some days the gentleman intended to go to London, and take little Tommy with him, of
whom you will know more by and by, for we shall at a proper time present you with his history,
his travels, and adventures.

The parting between these little children was very affecting. Tommy cried, and they kissed
each other an hundred times: at last Tommy thus wiped off her tears with the end of his jacket,
and bid her cry no more, for that he would come to her again when he returned from sea.

III

HOW LITTLE MARGERY OBTAINED THE NAME OF GOODY TWO-SHOES, AND WHAT HAPPENED IN THE PARISH

As soon as Little Margery got up in the morning, which was very early, she ran all round the
village, crying for her brother; and after some time returned greatly distressed.

However, at this instant, the shoemaker very opportunely came in with the new shoes, for which
she had been measured by the gentleman's order.

Nothing could have supported Little Margery under the affliction she was in for the loss of
her brother, but the pleasure she took in her two shoes. She ran out to Mrs. Smith as soon
as they were put on, and stroking down her ragged apron thus cried out, "Two shoes, ma'am,
see two shoes." And so she behaved to all the people she met, and by that means obtained the
name of Goody Two-Shoes.

Little Margery was very happy in being with Mr. and Mrs. Smith, who were very charitable and
good to her, and had agreed to bring her up with their family: but as soon as that tyrant of
the parish, that Graspall, heard of her being there, he applied first to Mr. Smith, and threatened
to reduce his tithes if he kept her; and after that he spoke to Sir Timothy, who sent Mr. Smith
a peremptory message by his servant, that he should send back Meanwell's girl to be kept by
her relations, and not harbor her in the parish. This so distressed Mr. Smith, that he shed
tears, and cried, "Lord, have mercy on the poor!"

The prayers of the righteous fly upwards, and reach unto the throne of heaven, as will be seen
by the sequel.

Mrs. Smith was also greatly concerned at being thus obliged to discard poor Little Margery.
She kissed her, and cried, as did also Mr. Smith; but they were obliged to send her away, for
the people who had ruined her father could at any time have ruined them.

IV

HOW LITTLE MARGERY LEARNED TO READ, AND BY DEGREES TAUGHT OTHERS

Little Margery saw how good and how wise Mr. Smith was, and concluded that this was owing to
his great learning, therefore she wanted of all things to learn to read. For this purpose she
used to meet the little boys as they came from school, borrow their books, and sit down and
read till they returned. By this means she got more learning than any of her playmates, and
laid the following scheme for instructing those who were more ignorant than herself. She found
that only the following letters were required to spell all the words; but as some of these
letters are large, and some small, she with her knife cut out of several pieces of wood ten
sets of each of these:

a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z.

And having got an old spelling book, she made her companions set up all the words they wanted
to spell, and after that she taught them to compose sentences. "You know what a sentence is,
my dear. 'I will be good' is a sentence; and is made up, as you see, of several words."

I once went her rounds with her, and was highly diverted, as you may see, if you please to
look into the next chapter.

V

HOW LITTLE TWO-SHOES BECAME A TROTTING TUTORESS, AND HOW SHE TAUGHT HER YOUNG PUPILS

It was about seven o'clock in the morning when we set out on this important business, and the
first house we came to was Farmer Wilson's. Here Margery stopped, and ran up to the door, tap,
tap, tap. "Who's there?" "Only Little Goody Two-Shoes," answered Margery, "come to teach Billy."
"Oh! Little Goody," says Mrs. Wilson, with pleasure in her face, "I am glad to see you Billy
wants you sadly for he has learned his lesson." Then out came the little boy. "How do, Doody
Two-Shoes," says he, not able to speak plain. Yet this little boy had learned all his letters;
for she threw down this alphabet mixed together thus:

b d f h k m o q s u w y x f a c e g i l n p r t v z j,

and he picked them up, called them by their right names, and put them all in order thus:

a b c d e f g h i j k i m n o p q r s t u v w x y z.

The next place we came to was Farmer Simpson's.

"Bow, wow, wow," says the dog at the door. "Sirrah," says his mistress, "what do you bark at
Little Two-Shoes? come in, Madge; here, Sally wants you sadly, she has learned all her lesson."

After this, Little Two-Shoes taught her to spell words of one syllable, and she soon set up
pear, plumb, top, ball, pin, puss, dog, hog, fawn, buck, doe, lamb, sheep, ram, cow, bull,
cock, hen, and many more.

The next place we came to was Gaffer Cook's cottage. Here a number of poor children were met
to learn, who all came round Little Margery at once, who having pulled out her letters, asked
the little boy next her what he had for dinner? Who answered, "Bread" (the poor children in
many places live very hard). "Well then," says she, "set up the first letter." He put up the
B, to which the next added r, and the next e, the next a, the next d, and it stood thus, Bread.

And what had you, Polly Comb, for your dinner? "Apple Pie," answered the little girl; upon
which the next in turn set up a great A, the two next a p each, and so on, till the two words
Apple and Pie were united and stood thus, Apple Pie.

The next had potatoes, the next beef and turnips; which were spelled, with many others, till
the game of spelling was finished. She then set them another task, and we proceeded.

The next place we came to was Farmer Thomson's, where there was a great many little ones waiting
for her.

"So, Little Mrs. Goody Two-Shoes," says one of them, "where have you been so long?" "I have
been teaching," says she, "longer than I intended, and am, I am afraid, come too soon for you
now." "No, but indeed you are not," replied the other; "for I have got my lesson, and so has
Sally Dawson, and so has Harry Wilson, and so have we all;" and they capered about as if they
were overjoyed to see her. "Why, then," says she, "you are all very good, and God Almighty
will love you; so let us begin our lessons." They all huddled round her, and though at the
other place they were employed about words and syllables, here we had people of much greater
understanding who dealt only in sentences.

Then the next took the letters, and composed this sentence:

"Lord, have mercy upon me, and grant that I may love my neighbor as myself, and do unto all
men as I would have them do unto me, and tell no lies; but be honest and just in all my dealings."

LESSON FOR THE CONDUCT OF LIFE

  He that would thrive,
    Must rise by five.
  He that hath thriven,
    May lay till seven.
  Truth may be blamed
    But can't be shamed.
  Tell me with whom you go,
    And I'll tell what you do.
  A friend in your need,
    Is a friend indeed.
  They never can be wise,
    Who good counsel despise.

As we were returning home, we saw a gentleman, who was very ill, sitting under a shady tree
at the corner of the rookery. Though ill, he began to joke with Little Margery, and said, laughing,
"So, Goody Two-Shoes, they tell me you are a cunning little baggage; pray can you tell me what
I shall do to get well?" "Yes, sir," says she, "go to bed when your rooks do and get up with
them in the morning; earn, as they do, every day what you eat, and eat and drink no more than
you earn: and you'll get health and keep it. What should induce the rooks to frequent gentlemen's
houses, only but to tell them how to lead a prudent life? they never build under cottages or
farmhouses, because they see that these people know how to live without their admonition.

  "Thus wealth and wit you may improve.
    Taught by tenants of the grove."

The gentleman, laughing, gave Margery sixpence, and told her she was a sensible hussy.

VI

HOW THE WHOLE PARISH WAS FRIGHTENED

Who does not know Lady Ducklington, or who does not know that she was buried at this parish
church? Well, I never saw a grander funeral in all my life; but the money they squandered away
would have been better laid out in little books for children, or in meat, drink, and clothes
for the poor.

All the country round came to see the burying, and it was late before the corpse was interred.
After which, in the night, or rather about two o'clock in the morning, the bells were heard
to jingle in the steeple, which frightened the people prodigiously, who all thought it was
Lady Ducklington's ghost dancing among the bell ropes. The people flocked to Will Dobbins,
the clerk, and wanted him to go to see what it was; but William said he was sure it was a ghost,
and that he would not offer to open the door. At length Mr. Long, the rector, hearing such
an uproar in the village, went to the clerk, to know why he did not go into the church, and
see who was there. "I go, sir?" says William; "why, the ghost would frighten me out of my wits!"
Mrs. Dobbins, too, cried, and laying hold of her husband, said he should not be eat up by the
ghost. "A ghost, you blockhead," says Mr. Long, in a pet; "did either of you ever see a ghost
in a church, or know anybody that did?" "Yes," says the clerk, "my father did once in the shape
of a windmill, and it walked all around the church in a trice, with jack boots on, and had
a gun by its side, instead of a sword." "A fine picture of a ghost, truly," says Mr. Long;
"give me the key of the church, you monkey, for I tell you there is no such thing now, whatever
may have been formerly." Then taking the key, he went to the church, all the people following
him. As soon as he had opened the door, what sort of a ghost do you think appeared? Why, Little
Two-Shoes, who being weary had fallen asleep in one of the pews during the funeral service,
and was shut in all night. She immediately asked Mr. Long's pardon for the trouble she had
given him, told him she had been locked into the church, and said she should not have rung
the bells, but that she was very cold, and hearing Farmer Boult's man go whistling by with
his horses, she was in hopes he would have gone to the clerk for the key to let her out.

VII

CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF ALL THE SPIRITS OR THINGS SHE SAW IN THE CHURCH

The people were ashamed to ask Little Madge any questions before Mr. Long, but as soon as he
was gone, they all got round her to satisfy their curiosity, and desired she would give them
a particular account of all that she had heard or seen.

HER TALE

"I went to the church," said she, "as most of you did last night, to see the burying, and,
being very weary, I sat me down in Mr. Johns's pew, and fell fast asleep. At eleven of the
clock I awoke; which I believe was in some measure occasioned by the clock's striking, for
I heard it. I started up, and could not at first tell where I was; but after some time I recollected
the funeral, and soon found that I was shut in the church. It was dismal dark, and I could
see nothing; but while I was standing in the pew, something jumped up upon me behind, and laid,
as I thought, its hands over my shoulders. I own I was a little afraid at first; however, I
considered that I had always been constant at prayers, and at church, and that I had done nobody
any harm, but had endeavored to do what good I could; and then thought I, what have I to fear?
Yet I kneeled down to say my prayers. As soon as I was on my knees, something very cold, as
cold as marble, ay, as cold as ice, touched my neck, which made me start, however, I continued
my prayers, and having begged protection from Almighty God, I found my spirits come, and I
was sensible I had nothing to fear; for God Almighty protects not only all those that are good,
but also all those who endeavor to be good--nothing can withstand the power, and exceed the
goodness of God Almighty. Armed with the confidence of his protection; I walked down the church
aisle, when I heard something pit, pat, pit, pat, pit, pat, come after me, and something touched
my hand, which seemed as cold as a marble monument. I could not think what this was, yet I
knew that it could not hurt me, and therefore I made myself easy; but being very cold, and
the church being paved with stones, which were very damp, I felt my way, as well as I could,
to the pulpit; in doing which something rushed by me and almost threw me down, However, I was
not frightened, for I knew that God Almighty would suffer nothing to hurt me.

"At last I found out the pulpit, and having shut the door, I laid me down on the mat and cushion
to sleep; when something thrust and pulled the door, as I thought, for admittance, which prevented
my going to sleep. At last it cries, 'Bow, wow, wow;' and I concluded it must be Mr. Saunderson's
dog, which had followed me from their house to church; so I opened the door, and called Snip,
Snip, and the dog jumped upon me immediately. After this, Snip and I lay down together, and
had a comfortable nap; for when I awoke again it was almost light. I then walked up and down
all the aisles of the church to keep myself warm; and though I went into the vaults, and trod
on Lady Ducklington's coffin, I saw nothing, and I believe it was owing to the reason Mr. Long
has given you, namely, that there is no such thing to be seen. As to my part, I would as soon
lie all night in a church as in any other place; and I am sure that any little boy or girl,
who is good and loves God Almighty, and keeps his commandments, may as safely lie in the church,
or the churchyard, as anywhere else, if they take care not to get cold, for I am sure there
are no things either to hurt or to frighten them; though any one possessed of fear might have
taken Neighbor Saunderson's dog with his cold nose for a ghost; and if they had not been undeceived,
as I was, would never have thought otherwise." All the company acknowledged the justness of
the observation, and thanked Little Two-Shoes for her advice.

REFLECTION

After this, my dear children, I hope you will not believe any foolish stories that ignorant,
weak, or designing people may tell you about ghosts; for the tales of ghosts, witches, and
fairies are the frolics of a distempered brain. No wise man ever saw either of them. Little
Margery was not afraid; no, she had good sense, and a good conscience, which is a cure for
all these imaginary evils.

Some days after this, a more dreadful accident befell Little Madge. She happened to be coming
late from teaching, when it rained, thundered, and lightened and therefore she took shelter
in a farmer's barn at a distance from the village. Soon after, the tempest drove in four thieves,
who not seeing such a little creep-mouse girl as Two-Shoes, lay down on the hay next to her,
and began to talk over their exploits, and to settle plans for future robberies. Little Margery,
on hearing them, covered herself with straw. To be sure she was frightened, but her good sense
taught her that the only security she had was in keeping herself concealed; therefore she lay
very still and breathed very softly. About four o'clock these wicked people came to a resolution
to break both Sir William Dove's house and Sir Timothy Gripe's, and by force of arms to carry
off all their money, plate, and jewels; but as it was thought then too late, they all agreed
to defer it till the next night. After laying his scheme, they all set out upon their pranks,
which greatly rejoiced Margery, as it would any other little girl in her situation. Early in
the morning she went to Sir William, and told him the whole of their conversation. Upon which
he asked her name, then gave her something, and bid her call at his house the day following.
She also went to Sir Timothy, notwithstanding he had used her so ill, for she knew it was her
duty to do good for evil. As soon as he was informed who she was, he took no notice of her;
upon which she desired to speak to Lady Gripe, and having informed her ladyship of the affair
she went away. This lady had more sense than her husband which indeed is not a singular case;
for instead of despising Little Margery and her information, she privately set people to guard
the house. The robbers divided themselves, and went about the time mentioned to both houses,
and were surprised by the guards and taken. Upon examining these wretches (one of which turned
evidence), both Sir William and Sir Timothy found that they owed their lives to the discovery
made by Little Margery; and the first took great notice of her and would no longer let her
lie in a barn; but Sir Timothy only said that he was ashamed to owe his life to the daughter
of one who was his enemy; so true it is, "That a proud man seldom forgives those he has injured."

IX

HOW LITTLE MARGERY WAS MADE PRINCIPAL OF A COUNTRY COLLEGE

Mrs. Williams, who kept a college for instructing little gentlemen and ladies in the science
of A, B, C, was at this time very old and infirm, and wanted to decline this important trust.
This being told to Sir William Dove, who lived in the parish, he sent for Mrs. Williams, and
desired she would examine Little Two-Shoes, and see whether she was qualified for the office.
This was done, and Mrs. Williams made the following report in her favor, namely, that Little
Margery was the best scholar, and had the best head and the best heart of any one she had examined.
All the country had a great opinion of Mrs. Williams, and this character gave them also a great
opinion of Mrs. Margery, for so we must now call her.

This Mrs. Margery thought the happiest period of her life; but more happiness was in store
for her. God Almighty heaps up blessings for all those who love him, and though for a time
he may suffer them to be poor, and distressed, and hide his good purposes from human sight,
yet in the end they are generally crowned with happiness here, and no one can doubt their being
so hereafter.

THE RENOWNED HISTORY OF MRS. MARGERY TWO-SHOES

PART TWO

In the first part of this work the young student has read, and I hope with pleasure and improvement,
the history of this lady, while she was known and distinguished by the name of LITTLE TWO-SHOES.
We are now come to a period of her life when that name was discarded, and a more eminent one
bestowed upon her; I mean that of MRS. MARGERY TWO-SHOES; for as she was now president of the
A, B, C college, it became necessary to exalt her in title as in place.

No sooner was she settled in this office, but she laid every possible scheme to promote the
welfare and happiness of all her neighbors, and especially of her little ones, in whom she
took great delight; and all those whose parents could not afford to pay for their education,
she taught for nothing but the pleasure she had in their company; for you are to observe that
they were very good, or were soon made so by her good management.

I

OF HER SCHOOL, HER USHERS, OR ASSISTANTS, AND HER MANNER OF TEACHING

We have already informed the reader, that the school where she taught was that which was before
kept by Mrs. Williams. The room was very large and spacious, and as she knew that nature intended
children should be always in action, she placed her different letters, or alphabets, all round
the school, so that every one was obliged to get up and fetch a letter, or to spell a word
when it came to their turn; which not only kept them in health, but fixed the letters and points
firmly in their minds.

II

A SCENE OF DISTRESS IN A SCHOOL

It happened one day, when Mrs. Two-Shoes was diverting the children after dinner, as she usually
did, with some innocent games, or entertaining and instructive stories, that a man arrived
with the melancholy news of Sally Jones's father being thrown from his horse, and thought past
all recovery; nay, the messenger said, that he was seemingly dying when he came away. Poor
Sally was greatly distressed, as indeed were all in the school, for she dearly loved her father,
and Mrs. Two-Shoes and all her children dearly loved her.

At this instant something was heard to flap at the window, at which the children were surprised;
but Mrs. Margery, knowing what it was, opened the casement, and drew in a pigeon with a letter.

As soon as he was placed upon the table, he walked up to little Sally, and dropping the letter,
cried "Co, co, coo;" as much as to say, "There, read it."

     "My dear Sally--God Almighty has been very merciful and
     restored your papa to us again, who is now so well as to be
     able to sit up. I hear you are a good girl, my dear, and I
     hope you will never forget to praise the Lord for that his
     great goodness and mercy to us. What a sad thing it would
     have been if your father had died, and left both you and me,
     and little Tommy in distress, and without a friend. Your
     father sends his blessing with mine. Be good, my dear child,
     and God Almighty will also bless you, whose blessing is above
     all things.

     "I am, my dear Sally,

     "Your affectionate mother,

     "MARTHA JONES."

III

OF THE AMAZING SAGACITY AND INSTINCT OF A LITTLE DOG

Soon after this, a very dreadful accident happened in the school. It was on a Thursday morning,
I very well remember, when the children having learned their lessons soon, she had given them
leave to play, and they were all running about the school, and diverting themselves with the
birds and the lamb; at this time the dog, all of a sudden, laid hold of his mistress's apron,
and endeavored to pull her out of the school. She was at first surprised; however, she followed
him, to see what he intended. No sooner had he led her back into the garden, but he ran back,
and pulled out one of the children in the same manner; upon which she ordered them all to leave
the school immediately, and they had not been out five minutes before the top of the house
fell in. What a miraculous deliverance was here! How gracious! How good was God Almighty to
save all these children from destruction, and to make use of such an instrument as a little
sagacious animal to accomplish his divine will! I should have observed that, as soon as they
were all in the garden, the dog came leaping round them to express his joy, and when the house
was fallen, laid himself down quietly by his mistress.

Some of the neighbors who saw the school fall, and who were in great pain for Margery and her
little ones, soon spread the news through the village, and all the parents, terrified for their
children, came crowding in abundance; they had, however, the satisfaction to find them all
safe, and upon their knees with their mistress, giving God thanks for their happy deliverance.

You are not to wonder, my dear reader, that this little dog should have more sense than you,
or your father, or your grandfather.

Though God Almighty has made man the lord of the creation and endowed him with reason; yet
in many respects he has been altogether as bountiful to other creatures of his forming. Some
of the senses of other animals are more acute than ours, as we find by daily experience.

The downfall of the school was a great misfortune to Mrs. Margery; for she not only lost all
her books, but was destitute of a place to teach in; but Sir William Dove, being informed of
this, ordered it to be built at his own expense, and till that could be done, Farmer Grove
was so kind as to let her have his large hall to teach in.

IV

WHAT HAPPENED AT FARMER GROVE'S, AND HOW SHE GRATIFIED HIM FOR THE USE OF HIS ROOM

While at Mr. Grove's, which was in the heart of the village, she not only taught the children
in the daytime, but the farmer's servants and all the neighbors to read and write in the evening;
and it was a constant practice, before they went away, to make them all go to prayers and sing
psalms. By this means the people grew extremely regular, his servants were always at home instead
of being at the alehouse, and he had more work done than ever. This gave not only Mr. Grove,
but all the neighbors, a high opinion of her good sense and prudent behavior; and she was so
much esteemed that the most of the differences in the parish were left to her decision; and
if a man and wife quarreled (which sometimes happened in that part of the kingdom), both parties
certainly came to her for advice. Everybody knows that Martha Wilson was a passionate, scolding
jade, and that John her husband was a surly, ill-tempered fellow. These were one day brought
by the neighbors for Margery to talk to them, when they talked before her, and were going to
blows; but she, stepping between them, thus addressed the husband: "John," says she, "you are
a man, and ought to have more sense than to fly in a passion at every word that is said amiss
by your wife: and Martha," says she, "you ought to know your duty better than to say anything
to aggravate your husband's resentment. These frequent quarrels arise from the indulgence of
your violent passions; for I know you both love each other, notwithstanding what has passed
between you. Now, pray tell me, John, and tell me, Martha, when you have had a quarrel over
night, are you not both sorry for it the next day?" They both declared that they were. "Why,
then," says she, "I'll tell you how to prevent this for the future, if you promise to take
my advice." They both promised her. "You know," says she, "that a small spark will set fire
to tinder, and that tinder properly placed will set fire to a house: an angry word is with
you as that spark, for you are both as touchy as tinder, and very often make your own house
too hot to hold you. To prevent this, therefore, and to live happily for the future, you must
solemnly agree, that if one speaks an angry word, the other will not answer, till he or she
has distinctly called over the alphabet, and the other not reply till he has told twenty; by
this means your passions will be stifled, and reason will have time to take the rule."

This is the best recipe that was ever given for a married couple to live in peace. Though John
and his wife frequently attempted to quarrel afterwards, they never could get their passions
to a considerable height; for there was something so droll in thus carrying on the dispute,
that, before they got to the end of the argument, they saw the absurdity of it, laughed, kissed,
and were friends.

V

THE CASE OF MRS. MARGERY

Mrs. Margery was always doing good, and thought she could never sufficiently gratify those
who had done anything to serve her. These generous sentiments naturally led her to consult
the interest of Mr. Grove, and the rest of her neighbors; and as most of their lands were meadow,
and they depended much on their hay, which had been for many years greatly damaged by the wet
weather, she contrived an instrument to direct them when to mow their grass with safety, and
prevent their hay being spoiled. They all came to her for advice, and by that means got in
their hay without damage, while most of that in the neighboring village was spoiled.

This occasioned a very great noise in the country, and so greatly provoked were the people
who resided in the other parishes, that they absolutely sent old Gaffer Goosecap (a busy fellow
in other people's concerns) to find out evidence against her. The wiseacre happened to come
to her to school, when she was walking about with a raven on one shoulder, a pigeon on the
other, a lark on her hand, and a lamb and a dog by her side; which indeed made a droll figure,
and so surprised the man that he cried out, "A witch! a witch! a witch!"

Upon this she, laughing, answered, "a conjurer! a conjurer! a conjurer!" and so they parted;
but it did not end thus, for a warrant was issued out against Mrs. Margery, and she was carried
to a meeting of the justices.

At the meeting, one of the justices who knew little of life, and less of the law, behaved very
idly; and, though nobody was able to prove anything against her, asked who she could bring
to her character. "Who can you bring against my character, sir?" says she. "There are people
enough who would appear in my defense, were it necessary: but I never supposed that any one
here could be so weak as to believe there was any such thing as a witch. If I am a witch, this
is my charm; and" (laying a barometer or weather-glass on the table) "it is with this," says
she, "that I have taught my neighbor to know the state of the weather." All the company laughed;
and Sir William Dove, who was on the bench, asked her accusers how they could be such fools
as to think there was any such thing as a witch?

After this, Sir William inveighed against the absurd and foolish notions which the country
people had imbibed concerning witches and witchcraft, and having proved that there was no such
thing, but that all were the effects of folly and ignorance, he gave the court such an account
of Mrs. Margery, and her virtue, good sense, and prudent behavior, that the gentlemen present
were enamored with her, and returned her public thanks for the great service she had done the
country. One gentleman in particular, I mean Sir Charles Jones, had conceived such a high opinion
of her that he offered her a considerable sum to take care of his family, and the education
of his daughter, which, however, she refused; but this gentleman sending for her afterwards,
when he had a dangerous fit of illness, she went, and behaved so prudently in the family, and
so tenderly to him and his daughter, that he would not permit her to leave his house, but soon
after made her proposals of marriage. She was truly sensible of the honor he intended her,
but, though poor, she would not consent to be made a lady till he had effectually provided
for his daughter; for she told him that power was a dangerous thing to be trusted with, and
that a good man or woman would never throw themselves into the road of temptation.

All things being settled, and the day fixed, the neighbors came in crowds to see the wedding;
for they were all glad that one who had been such a good little girl, and was become such a
virtuous and good woman, was going to be made a lady; but just as the clergyman had opened
his book, a gentleman richly dressed ran into the church and cried, "Stop! stop!" This greatly
alarmed the congregation, particularly the intended bride and bridegroom, whom he first accosted
and desired to speak with them apart. After they had been talking some little time, the people
were greatly surprised to see Sir Charles stand motionless, and his bride cry and faint away
in the stranger's arms. This seeming grief, however, was only a prelude to a flood of joy which
immediately succeeded; for you must know, gentle reader, that this gentleman, so richly dressed,
was that identical little boy, whom you before saw in the sailor's habit; in short, it was
Mrs. Margery's brother, who was just come from sea, where he had, after a desperate engagement,
taken a rich prize; and hearing, as soon as he landed, of his sister's intended wedding, had
rode post to see that a proper settlement was made on her, which she was now entitled to, as
he himself was both able and willing to give her an ample fortune. They soon returned to the
communion table, and were married in tears, but they were tears of joy.

VI

THE TRUE USE OF RICHES

About this time she heard that Mr. Smith was oppressed by Sir Timothy Gripe and his friend
Graspall; upon which she, in conjunction with her brother, defended him in Westminster Hall,
where Mr. Smith gained a verdict. As a justice of the peace he was struck off the list, and
no longer permitted to act in that capacity. A relation of his who had a right to the Mouldwell
estate, finding that it was possible to get the better at law of a rich man, laid claim to
it, brought his action, and recovered the whole manor of Mouldwell; and being afterwards inclined
to sell it, he in consideration of the aid Lady Margery had lent him during his distress, made
her the first offer, and she purchased the whole. This mortified Sir Timothy and his friend
Graspall, who experienced nothing but misfortunes, and was in a few years so dispossessed of
his ill-gotten wealth, that his family were reduced to seek subsistance from the parish, at
which those who had felt the weight of his iron hand rejoiced; but Lady Margery desired that
his children might be treated with care and tenderness; "for they" (says she) "are noways accountable
for the actions of their father." At her first coming into power, she took care to gratify
her old friends, especially Mr. and Mrs. Smith, whose family she made happy.

LIST OF BEST BOOKS OF CLASSIC TALES AND OLD-FASHIONED STORIES

ABBOTT, JACOB Franconia Stories ABBOTT, JACOB Jonas Stories ABBOTT, JACOB Rollo Books ADDISON,
STEELE, BUDGELL Papers of Roger de Coverley AIKIN, JOHN, AND BARBAULD, ANNA LETITIA Evenings
at Home AGUILAR, GRACE Home Influence AGUILAR, GRACE The Mother's Recompense ARABIAN NIGHTS
BARBAULD, MRS. Juvenile Forget-me-not BARNARD, MRS. CAROLINE The Parent's Offering BROOKE,
HENRY The Fool of Quality BUNYAN, JOHN Pilgrim's Progress CERVANTES, MIGUEL Don Quixote CHAUCER,
GEOFFREY Canterbury Tales DAY, THOMAS Sandford and Merton DAY, THOMAS The History of Little
Jack DEFOE, DANIEL Robinson Crusoe EDGEWORTH, MARIA Parent's Assistant EDGEWORTH, MARIA Harry
and Lucy EDGEWORTH, MARIA Moral Tales ELIOT, GEORGE Silas Marner FIELDING, SARAH The Adventures
of David Simple GODWIN, MRS. WILLIAM The Stories of Old Daniel GOLDSMITH, OLIVER The Vicar
of Wakefield GOODRICH, S.G. Fagots for the Fireside HOMER The Iliad HOMER The Odyssey HOWITT,
MARY Treasury of Tales HUGO, VICTOR Les Misérables JAMES, G.P.R. Prince Life LAMB, CHARLES
Mrs. Leicester's School LAMB, CHARLES AND MARY Tales from Shakespeare LUCAS, E.V. (Ed.) Old-Fashioned
Tales LUCAS, E.V. (Ed.) Forgotten Tales of Long Ago MARTIN, WILLIAM Peter Parley's Annual MANT,
ALICIA CATHERINE Tales for Ellen MORE, HANNAH Coelebs in Search of a Wife PEARSON, MISS A Few
Weeks at Clairmont Castle RASPE, RODOLPH ERIC The Travels of Baron Munchausen SHERWOOD, MRS.
The Fairchild Family SINCLAIR, KATHERINE Holiday House SWIFT, JONATHAN Gulliver's Travels WAKEFIELD,
PRISCILLA Juvenile Anecdotes WYSS, JOHANN RUDOLPH Swiss Family Robinson

