Although the settlers of Plymouth Colony cherished more liberal sentiments than their neighbors
of the Bay Colony, and sanctioned the expulsion of Mr. Williams from Seekonk only for the purpose
of preserving peace with those whom Blackstone called "the Lord Bretheren," yet they guarded
the prerogatives of the ruling church order as worthy not only of the respect, but also the
support, of all. Rehoboth was the most liberal, as well as the most loyal, of the children
of Plymouth; but the free opinions which the planters brought from Weymouth, where an attempt
had already been made to establish a Baptist church, enabled them to sympathize strongly with
their neighbors across the Seekonk River. "At this time," says Baylies, "so much indifference
as to the support of the clergy was manifested in Plymouth Colony, as to excite the alarm of
the other confederated colonies. The complaint of Massachusetts against Plymouth on this subject
was laid before the Commissioners, and drew from them a severe reprehension. Rehoboth had been
afflicted with a severe schism, and by its proximity to Providence and its plantations, where
there was a universal toleration, the practice of free inquiry was encouraged, and principle,
fancy, whim, and conscience, all conspired to lessen the veneration for ecclesiastical authority."
As the "serious schism" referred to above led to the foundation of the first Baptist church
within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, on New Meadow Neck in Old Swanzey, it is worthy of
record here. The leader in this church revolt was Obadiah Holmes, a native of Preston, in Lancashire,
England. He was connected with the church in Salem from 1639 till 1646, when he was excommunicated,
and removing with his family to Rehoboth, he joined Mr. Newman's church. The doctrines and
the discipline of this church proved too severe for Mr. Holmes, and he, with eight others,
withdrew in 1649, and established a new church by themselves.

Mr. Newman's irascible temper was kindled into a persecuting zeal against the offending brethren,
and, after excommunicating them, he aroused the civil authorities against them. So successful
was he that four petitions were presented to the Plymouth Court; one from Rehoboth, signed
by thirty-five persons; one from Taunton; one from all the clergymen in the colony but two,
and one from the government of Massachusetts. How will the authorities at Plymouth treat this
first division in the ruling church of the colony? Will they punish by severe fines, by imprisonment,
by scourgings, or by banishment? By neither, for a milder spirit of toleration prevailed, and
the separatists were simply directed to "refrain from practices disagreeable to their brethren,
and to appear before the Court."

In 1651, some time after his trial at Plymouth, Mr. Holmes was arrested, with Mr. Clarke, of
Newport, and Mr. Crandall, for preaching and worshiping God with some of their brethren at
Lynn. They were condemned by the Court at Boston to suffer fines or whippings. Holmes refused
to pay the fine, and would not allow his friends to pay it for him, saying that "to pay it
would be acknowledging himself to have done wrong, whereas his conscience testified that he
had done right." He was accordingly punished with thirty lashes from a three-corded whip, with
such severity, says Governor Jenks, "that in many days, if not some weeks, he could take no
rest but as he lay upon his knees and elbows, not being able to suffer any part of his body
to touch the bed whereon he lay." Soon after this, Holmes and his followers moved to Newport,
and on the death of the Reverend Mr. Clarke, in 1652, he succeeded him as pastor of the First
Baptist Church in that time. Mr. Holmes died at Newport in 1682, aged seventy-six years.

The persecution offered to the Rehoboth Baptists scattered their church, but did not destroy
their principles. Facing the obloquy attached to their cause, and braving the trials imposed
by the civil and ecclesiastical powers, they must wait patiently God's time of deliverance.
That their lives were free from guile, none claim. That their cause was righteous, none will
deny; and while the elements of a Baptist church were thus gathering strength on this side
of the Atlantic, a leader was prepared for them, by God's providence, on the other. In the
same year that Obadiah Holmes and his band established their church in Massachusetts, in opposition
to the Puritan order, Charles I, the great English traitor, expiated his "high crimes and misdemeanors"
on the scaffold, at the hands of a Puritan Parliament. Then followed the period of the Commonwealth
under Cromwell, and then the Restoration, when "there arose up a new king over Egypt, who knew
not Joseph." The Act of Uniformity, passed in 1662, under the sanction of Charles II, though
a fatal blow at the purity and piety of the English Church, was a royal blessing to the cause
of religion in America. Two thousand bravely conscientious men, who feared God more than the
decrees of Pope, King, or Parliament, were driven from their livings and from the kingdom.
What was England's great loss was America's great gain, for a grand tidal wave of emigration
swept westward across the Atlantic to our shores. Godly men and women, clergy and laity, made
up this exiled band, too true and earnest to yield a base compliance to the edict of conformity.
For thirteen years here the Dissenters from Mr. Newman's church waited for a spiritual guide,
but not in vain.

How our Baptist brethren here conducted themselves during these years, and the difficulties
they may have occasioned or encountered, we know but little. Plymouth, liberal already, has
grown more lenient towards church offenders in matters of conscience. Mr. John Brown, a citizen
of Rehoboth, and one of the magistrates, has presented before the Court his scruples at the
expediency of coercing the people to support the ministry, and has offered to pay from his
own property the taxes of all those of his townsmen who may refuse their support of the ministry.
This was in 1665. Massachusetts Bay has tried to correct the errors of her sister colony on
the subject of toleration, and has in turn been rebuked by her example.

JOHN MYLES.

Leaving the membership awhile, let us cross the sea to Wales to find their future pastor and
teacher--John Myles.

Wales had been the asylum for the persecuted and oppressed for many centuries. There freedom
of religious thought was tolerated, and from thence sprung three men of unusual vigor and power:
Roger Williams, Oliver Cromwell, and John Myles. About the year 1645, the Baptists in that
country who had previously been scattered and connected with other churches, began to unite
in the formation of separate churches, under their own pastors. Prominent among these was the
Reverend Mr. Myles, who preached in various places with great success, until the year 1649,
when we find him pastor of a church which he organized in Swansea, in South Wales. It is a
singular coincidence that Mr. Myles's pastorate at Swansea, and the separation of the members
from the Rehoboth church, a part of whom aided in establishing the church in Swanzey, Massachusetts,
occurred in the same year.

During the Protectorate of Cromwell, all Dissenters enjoyed the largest liberty of conscience,
and, as a result, the church at Swansea grew from forty-eight to three hundred souls. Around
this centre of influence sprang up several branch churches, and pastors were raised up to care
for them. Mr. Myles soon became the leader of his denomination in Wales, and in 1651 he was
sent as the representative of all the Baptist churches in Wales to the Baptist ministers' meeting,
at Glazier's Hall, London, with a letter, giving an account of the peace, union, and increase
of the work. As a preacher and worker he had no equal in that country, and his zeal enabled
him to establish many new churches in his native land. The act of the English Saint Bartholomew's
Day, in 1662, deprived Mr. Myles of the support which the government under Cromwell had granted
him, and he, with many others, chose the freedom of exile to the tyranny of an unprincipled
monarch. It would be interesting for us to give an account of his leave-taking of his church
at Swansea, and of his associates in Christian labor, and to trace out his passage to Massachusetts,
and to relate the circumstances which led him to search out and to find the little band of
Baptists at Rehoboth. Surely some law of spiritual gravitation or affinity, under the good
hand of God, thus raised up and brought this under-shepherd to the flock thus scattered in
the wilderness. Nicholas Tanner, Obadiah Brown, John Thomas, and others, accompanied Mr. Myles
in his exile from Swansea, Wales. The first that is known of them in America was the formation
of a Baptist church at the house of John Butterworth in Rehoboth, whose residence is said to
have been near the Cove in the western part of the present town of East Providence. Mr. Myles
and his followers had probably learned at Boston, or at Plymouth, of the treatment offered
to Holmes and his party, ten years before, and his sympathies led him to seek out and unite
the elements which persecution had scattered. Seven members made up this infant church, namely:
John Myles, pastor, James Brown, Nicholas Tanner, Joseph Carpenter, John Butterworth, Eldad
Kingsley, and Benjamin Alby. The principles to which their assent was given were the same as
those held by the Welsh Baptists, as expounded by Mr. Myles. The original record-book of the
church contains a list of the members of Mr. Myles's church in Swansea, from 1640 till 1660,
with letters, decrees, ordinances, etc., of the several churches of the denomination in England
and Wales. This book, now in the possession of the First Baptist Church in Swanzey, Massachusetts,
is probably a copy of the original Welsh records, made by or for Mr. Myles's church in Massachusetts,
the sentiments of which controlled their actions here.

Of the seven constituent members, only one was a member of Myles's church in Wales--Nicholas
Tanner. James Brown was a son of John Brown, both of whom held high offices in the Plymouth
colony. Mr. Newman and his church were again aroused at the revival of this dangerous sect,
and they again united with the other orthodox churches of the colony in soliciting the Court
to interpose its influence against them, and the members of this little church were each fined
five pounds, for setting up a public meeting without the knowledge and approbation of the Court,
to the disturbance of the peace of the place,--ordered to desist from their meeting for the
space of a month, and advised to remove their meeting to some other place where they might
not prejudice any other church. The worthy magistrates of Plymouth have not told us how these
few Baptist brethren "disturbed the peace" of quiet old Rehoboth. Good old Rehoboth, that roomy
place, was not big enough to contain this church of seven members, and we have to-day to thank
the spirit of Newman and the order of Plymouth Court for the handful of seed-corn, which they
cast upon the waters, which here took root and has brought forth the fruits of a sixty-fold growth.

From a careful reading of the first covenant of the church, we judge that it was a breach of
ecclesiastical, rather than of civil, law, and that the fines and banishment from the limits
of Rehoboth were imposed as a preventive against any further inroads upon the membership of
Mr. Newman's church. In obedience to the orders of the Court, the members of Mr. Myles's church
looked about for a more convenient dwelling-place, and found it as near to the limits of the
old town and their original homes as the law would allow. Within the bounds of Old Swanzey,
Massachusetts, in the northern part of the present town of Barrington, Rhode Island, they selected
a site for a church edifice. The spot now pointed out as the location of this building for
public worship is near the main road from Warren by Munro's Tavern to Providence, on the east
side of a by-way leading from said road to the residence of Joseph G. West, Esq. A plain and
simple structure, it was undoubtedly fitted up quickly by their own labor, to meet the exigency
of the times. Here they planted their first spiritual home, and enjoyed a peace which pastor
and people had long sought for.

The original covenant is a remarkable paper, toned with deep piety and a broad and comprehensive
spirit of Christian fellowship.

HOLY COVENANT.

SWANSEY IN NEW ENGLAND.--A true coppy of the Holy Covenant the first founders of Swansey Entred
into at the first beginning and all the members thereof for Divers years.

Whereas we Poor Creatures are through the exceeding Riches of Gods Infinite Grace Mercyfully
snatched out of the Kingdom of darkness and by his Infinite Power translated into the Kingdom
of his dear Son, there to be partakers with all Saints of all those Priviledges which Christ
by the Shedding of his Pretious Blood hath purchased for us, and that we do find our Souls
in Some good Measure wrought on by Divine Grace to desire to be Conformable to Christ in all
things, being also constrained by the matchless love and wonderfull Distinguishing Mercies
that we Abundantly Injoy from his most free grace to Serve him according to our utmost capacitys,
and that we also know that it is our most bounden Duty to Walk in Visible Communion with Christ
and Each other according to the Prescript Rule of his most holy word, and also that it is our
undoubted Right through Christ to Injoy all the Priviledges of Gods House which our souls have
for a long time panted after. And finding no other way at Present by the all-working Providence
of our only wise God and gracious Father to us opened for the Injoyment of the same. We do
therefore after often and Solemn Seeking to the Lord for Help and direction in the fear of
his holy Name, and with hands lifted up to him the most High God, Humbly and freely offer up
ourselves this day a Living Sacrifice unto him who is our God in Covenant through Christ our
Lord and only Savior to walk together according to his revealed word in the Visible Gospel
Relation both to Christ our only head, and to each other as fellow-members and Brethren and
of the Same Household faith. And we do Humbly praye that that through his Strength we will
henceforth Endeavor to Perform all our Respective Duties towards God and each other and to
practice all the ordinances of Christ according to what is or shall be revealed to us in our
Respective Places to exercise Practice and Submit to the Government of Christ in this his Church!
viz. furthur Protesting against all Rending or Dividing Principles or Practices from any of
the People of God as being most abominable and loathsome to our souls and utterly inconsistent
with that Christian Charity which declare men to be Christ's Disciples. Indeed further declaring
in that as Union in Christ is the sole ground of our Communion, each with other, So we are
ready to accept of, Receive too and hold Communion with all such as by a judgment of Charity
we conceive to be fellow-members with us in our head Christ Jesus tho Differing from us in
Such Controversial Points as are not absolutely and essencially necessary to salvation. We
also hope that though of ourselves we are altogether unworthy and unfit thus to offer up ourselves
to God or to do him a--or to expect any favor with, or mercy from Him. He will graciously accept
of this our free will offering in and through the merit and mediation of our Dear Redeemer.
And that he will imploy and emprove us in his service to his Praise, to whom be all Glory,
Honor, now and forever, Amen.

The catholic spirit of Mr. Myles soon drew to the new settlement on New Meadow Neck many families
who held to Baptist opinions, as well as some of other church relations friendly to their interests.
The opposition which their principles had awakened, had brought the little company into public
notice, and their character had won for them the respect and confidence of their neighbors.

The Rehoboth church had come to regard Mr. Myles and his followers with more kindly feelings,
and, in 1666, after the death of the Reverend Mr. Newman, it was voted by the town that Mr.
Myles be invited to "preach, namely: once in a fortnight on the week day, and once on the Sabbath
day." And in August of the same year the town voted "that Mr. Myles shall still continue to
lecture on the week day, and further on the Sabbath, if he be thereunto legally called."

This interchange of pulpit relations indicates a cordial sentiment between the two parishes,
which is in striking contrast to the hostility manifested to the new church but three years
before, when they were warned out of the town, and suggests the probable fact that animosities
had been conquered by good will, and that sober judgment had taken the place of passionate bigotry.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCH SERVICES IN PURITAN TIMES.

The Elders' Advice in Matrimonial Matters.

From the Baptist Church records copied from the Welsh, which were brought from Swansea, Wales,
by the Reverend John Myles, we quote, as follows:--

"The Sabbath meeting shall begin at 8 A.M., and on the fourth day of the weeke begins at nine
of the Clock."...

"That one brother extemporize in Welsh for an hour, and after the said Welsh brother there
shall be a publick sermon to the world, after this breaking bread."...

"That such brethren or sisters as shall any way hereafter intend to change their calling or
condition of life by marriage or otherwise, do propose their cases to the elders or ablest
brethren of the church, to have council from before they make any engagements, and in all difficult
cases, and before all marriages, the churches council be taken therein."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RENT VEIL.

By Henry B. Carrington.

  "And the veil of the temple was rent in twain."

  I.

  The Great I AM,--that Presence, Infinite,
  Which wrought creation by the breath
  Of Sovereign Will,--and in His Image bright,
  Brought man to life, to dwell in Paradise,--
  Took gracious pity on his lost estate,
  When sin had marred that perfect image,
  And Earth could pay no ransom for the soul.

  II.

  Jehovah,--God, effulgence bright,--august,--
  In majesty supreme, from Heaven stooped down,
  And through His wondrous love, ineffable,
  Enshrined Himself within that sacred place,
  Which, once in each revolving year,
  The type of the Redeemer, promised,
  Might dare approach, with awe, with offerings
  For the sins of Israel's children.

  III.

  As but a day, four thousand years, when told,
  With Him, who was, and is to be,--
  Eternal--Three in One,--Omnipotent:--
  Such was the span of ripening promise,
  Until the hour matured, and Saving Grace,
  The full Redemption offered,--by gift
  Of Spotless purity,--His Only Son.

  IV.

  Within the "Holy Place," the High Priest bowed,
  While dread Shekinah lingered,--(ne'er again
  To yield to Jewish rite or sacrifice,
  The boon of pardoned guilt, for blood of goats
  Or bullocks, without blemish);--and bowed,
  While yet the echoes of his voice, profane,
  Still quivered in the midnight air,--floating
  Upward toward the Great White Throne,--crying,
  O,--crucify the spotless Son of Man,
  And let Barabbas, son of sin, go free.

  V.

  Where direst portents, solitude profound,--
  Place, awful with the bleaching types of death,
  Had published forth Golgotha's cruel name.
  The stately High Priest, from the "Holy Place"
  Approached, to consummate prophetic crime,--
  To fill the measure of Judea's sin,--
  And bring Messiah to a dying race.

  VI.

  "IT IS FINISHED."

  VII.

  O,--light of day, whose now averted face,
  As ne'er before, withholds thy cheer from man!--
  O,--quaking earth, whose bed of solid rock,
  Is shivered by some pang of awful ill!--
  O,--graves, once sealed o'er loved ones, laid aside,
  To answer only at Archangels' call!--
  What tragedy of creation's Master;--
  What spell upon creation's normal peace;--
  What overturn of laws immutable;--
  What contradictions in the mind Supreme;
  Have wrought this pregnant ruin,--earth throughout!

  VIII.

  O,--priest, whose ministrations, laid aside
  To bring fulfillment of the fearful curse
  Upon thy race, have now that curse assured,--
  Look back!--and see the altar, bared to view
  Of vulgar herd and phrenzied populace.
  "The veil in twain is rent,"--and never more
  Shall dread Shekinah show Himself to thee;--
  But where each humble soul, with sin oppressed,
  Lifts up the cry of penitential grief,
  A temple shall be found,--and deep within,
  Shall dwell that sacred Presence,--evermore.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRST SCHOOLMASTER OF BOSTON.

By Elizabeth Porter Gould.

When Agassiz requested to go down the ages with no other name than "Teacher," he not only appropriately
crowned his own life-work, but stamped the vocation of teaching with a royalty which can never
be gainsaid. By this act he dignified with lasting honor all those to whom the name "Teacher,"
in its truest meaning, can be applied.

In this work of teaching, one man stands out in the history of New England who should be better
known to the present generation. He was a benefactor in the colonial days when education was
striving to keep her lamp burning in the midst of the necessary practical work which engaged
the attention of most of the people of that time. His name was Ezekiel Cheever. When a young
man of twenty-three years, he came from London--where he was born January 25, 1614--to Boston,
seven years after its settlement. The following spring he went to New Haven, where he soon
married, and became actively engaged in founding the colony there. Among the men who went there
the same year was a Mr. Wigglesworth, whose son, in later years, as the Reverend Michael Wigglesworth,
gave an account of Mr. Cheever's success in the work of teaching, which he began soon after
reaching the place. "I was sent to school to Mr. Ezekiel Cheever, who at that time taught school
in his own house, and under him in a year or two I profited so much through y'e blessing of
God, that I began to make Latin & to get forward apace."

Mr. Cheever received as a salary for two or three years twenty pounds; and in 1643, while receiving
this salary, his name is sixth in the list of planters and their estates, his estate being
valued only at twenty pounds. In the year following, his salary was raised to thirty pounds
a year. This probably was an actual necessity, for his family now consisted, besides himself
and wife, of a son Samuel, five years old, and a daughter Mary of four years. Ezekiel, born
two years before, had died. This son, Samuel, it may be said in passing, was graduated at Harvard
College in 1659, and was settled as a clergyman at Marblehead, Massachusetts, where he died
at the age of eighty-five, having been universally esteemed during his long life.

Besides being the teacher of the new colony, Mr. Cheever entered into other parts of its work.
He was one of the twelve men chosen as "fitt for the foundacon worke of the church." He was
also chosen a member of the Court for the plantation, at its first session, and in 1646 he
was one of the deputies to the General Court. It is supposed that during this time he wrote
his valuable little book called The Accidence. It passed through seventeen editions before
the Revolution. A copy of the eighteenth edition, printed in Boston in 1785, is now in the
Boston Athenæum. It is a quaint little book of seventy-two pages, with one cover gone, and
is surely an object of interest to all loving students of Latin. A copy of the tenth edition
is found in Harvard College, while it has been said that a copy of the seventh is in a private
library in Hartford, Connecticut. The last edition was published in Boston in 1838. In a prospectus,
containing commendations of the work from many eminent men of learning, the Honorable Josiah
Quincy, LL.D., president of Harvard College, said of it: "A work which was used for more than
a century in the schools of New England, as the first elementary book for learners of the Latin
language; which held its place in some of the most eminent of those schools, nearly, if not
quite, to the end of the last century; which has passed through at least twenty editions in
this country; which was the subject of the successive labor and improvement of a man who spent
seventy years in the business of instruction, and whose fame is second to that of no schoolmaster
New England has ever produced, requires no additional testimony to its worth or its merits."
A copy of this edition is now in the library of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Dr. David
W. Cheever, of Boston, a descendant of the schoolmaster, also has one in his possession.

There is another old book in the Boston Athenæum, published in 1757, containing three short
essays under the title of Scripture Prophecies Explained. The first one is "On the Restitution
of All Things"; the second is "On St. John's First Resurrection"; and the third, "On the Personal
Coming of Jesus Christ, as Commencing at the Beginning of the Millenium described in the Apocalypse."
These were written by Mr. Cheever, but at what time of his life there seems to be some doubt.
They indicate his religious zeal, which at this time in New Haven was put forth for the good
of the church. Although he was never ordained to the ministry, yet he occasionally preached.
In 1649, however, he dissented from the judgment of the church and elders in regard to some
cases of discipline, and for some comments on their action, which seemed to them severe, they
brought charges against him. Two of the principal ones were: "1. His unseemly gestures and
carriage before the church, in the mixed assembly;" and "2. That when the church did agree
to two charges (namely, of assumption and partiality), he did not give his vote either to the
affirmative or the negative."

As showing some of the phases of a common humanity, the reading of the trial is interesting.
Mr. Cheever, who was then thirty-five years old, was desired to answer these charges of unseemly
gestures, which his accusers had brought down to a rather small point, such as holding down
his head into the seat, "then laughing or smiling," and also "wrapping his handkerchief about
his face, and then pulling it off again;" and still another, "that his carriage was offensively
uncomely," three affirming "that he rather carried it as one acting a play, than as one in
the presence of God in an ordinance."

