PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

November 22, 1890.

]

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD-NATURED TEMPEST.

It was stated in the Echo that, during the late storm, a brig "brought into Dover harbour two
men, with their ribs and arms broken by a squall off Beachy Head. The deck-house and steering-gear
were carried away, and the men taken to Dover Hospital." Who shall say, after this, that storms
do not temper severity with kindness? This particular one, it is true, broke some ribs and
arms, and carried away portions of a brig, but, in the very act of doing this, it took the
sufferers, and laid them, apparently, on the steps of Dover Hospital. If we must have storms,
may they all imitate this motherly example.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHAT A WONDERFUL BO-OY!"--In the Head-Master's Guide for November, in the list of applicants
for Masterships, appears a gentleman who offers to teach Mathematics, Euclid, Arithmetic, Algebra,
Natural Science, History, Geography, Book-keeping, French Grammar, Freehand, and Perspective
Drawing, the Piano, the Organ, and the Harmonium, and Singing, for the modest salary of £20
a-year without a residence! But it is only just to add; that this person seems to be of marvellous
origin, for although he admits extreme youth (he says he is only three years of age!) he boasts
ten years of experience! O si sic omnes! So wise, so young, so cheap!

       *       *       *       *       *

If spectacular effects are worth remembering, then Sheriff DRURIOLANUS ought to be a member
of the Spectacle-makers' Company.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALICE IN BLUNDERLAND.

(ON THE NINTH OF NOVEMBER.)

    ["Our difficulties are such as these--that America has
    instituted a vast system of prohibitive tariffs, mainly,
    I believe, because ... American pigs do not receive proper
    treatment at the hands of Europe.... If we have any difficulty
    with our good neighbours in France, it is because of
    that unintelligent animal the lobster; and if we have any
    difficulty with our good neighbours in America, it is because
    of that not very much nobler animal, the seal."--Lord
    Salisbury at the Mansion House.]

The Real Turtle sang this, very slowly, and sadly:--

  "We are getting quite important," said the Porker to the Seal,
  "For we're 'European Questions,' as a Premier seems to feel.
  See the 'unintelligent' Lobster, even he, makes an advance!
  Oh, we lead the Politicians of the earth a pretty dance.
    Will you, won't you, Yankee Doodle, England, and gay France.
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, let us lead the dance?

  "You can really have no notion how delightful it will be,
  When they take us up as matters of the High Diplomacee."
  But the Seal replied, "They brain us!" and he gave a look askance
  At the goggle-eyed mailed Lobster, who was loved (and boiled) by France.
    "Would they, could they, would they, could they, give us half a chance?
    Lobsters, Pigs, and Seals all suffer, Commerce to advance!"

  "What matters it how grand we are!" his plated friend replied,
  If our destiny is Salad, or the Sausage boiled or fried?
  Though we breed strife 'twixt England, and America, and France,
  If we're chopped up, or boiled, or brained where is our great advance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you chuck away a chance
    Of peace in pig-stye, or at sea, to play the game of France?"

"Thank you, it's a very amusing dance--to watch," said ALICE, feeling very glad that she had
not to stand up in it.

"You may not have lived much under the Sea"

"I dare say not," said ALICE.

"Stand up and repeat ''Tis the Voice of the Premier,'" said the Griffin.

ALICE got up and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of Lobsters, Pigs, and Seals,
that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

  "'Tis the voice of the Premier; I heard him complain
  On the Ninth of November all prophecy's vain.
  I must make some sort of a speech, I suppose.
  Dear DIZZY (who led the whole world by the nose)
  Said the world heard, for once, on this day, 'Truth and Sense'
  (I.e. neatly phrased Make-believe and Pretence),
  But when GLADDY's 'tide' rises, and lost seats abound,
  One's voice has a cautious and timorous sound."

"I've heard this sort of thing so often before," said the Real Turtle; "but it sounds uncommon
nonsense. Go on with the next verse."

       *       *       *       *       *

GAMES.--It being the season of burglaries, E. WOLF AND SON--("WOLF," most appropriate name,--but
Wolf and Moon would have been still better than WOLF AND SON)--take the auspicious time to
bring out their new game of "Burglar and Bobbies." On a sort of draught-board, so that both
Burglar and Bobby play "on the square," which is in itself a novelty. The thief may be caught
in thirteen moves. This won't do. We want him to be caught before he moves at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VOCES POPULI.

AT A SALE OF HIGH-CLASS SCULPTURE.

    SCENE--An upper floor in a City Warehouse; a low, whitewashed
    room, dimly lighted by dusty windows and two gas-burners in
    wire cages. Around the walls are ranged several statues of
    meek aspect, but securely confined in wooden cases, like a
    sort of marble menagerie. In the centre, a labyrinthine grove
    of pedestals, surmounted by busts, groups, and statuettes
    by modern Italian masters. About these pedestals a small
    crowd--consisting of Elderly Merchants on the look out for a
    "neat thing in statuary" for the conservatory at Croydon or
    Muswell Hill, Young City Men who have dropped in after lunch,
    Disinterested Dealers, Upholsterers' Buyers, Obliging Brokers,
    and Grubby and Mysterious men--is cautiously circulating.

Obliging Broker (to Amiable Spectator, who has come in out of curiosity, and without the remotest
intention of purchasing sculpture). No Catlog, Sir? 'Ere, allow me to orfer you mine--that's
my name in pencil on the top of it, Sir; and, if you should 'appen to see any lot that takes
your fancy, you jest ketch my eye. (Reassuringly.) I shan't be fur off. Or look 'ere, gimme
a nudge--I shall know what it means.

    [The A.S. thanks him profusely, and edges away with an
    inward vow to avoid his and the Auctioneer's eyes, as he
    would those of a basilisk.

Auctioneer (from desk, with the usual perfunctory fervour). Lot 13, Gentlemen, very charming
pair of subjects from child life--"The Pricked Finger" and "The Scratched Toe"--by BIMBI.

A Stolid Assistant (in shirtsleeves). Figgers 'ere, Gen'lm'n!

    [Languid surge of crowd towards them.

A Facetious Bidder. Which of 'em's the finger, and which the toe?

Auct. (coldly). I should have thought it was easy to identify by the attitude. Now, Gentlemen,
give me a bidding for these very finely-executed works by BIMBI. Make any offer. What will
you give me for 'em? Both very sweet things, Gentlemen. Shall we say ten guineas?

A Grubby Man. Give yer five.

Auct. (with grieved resignation). Very well, start 'em at five. Any advance on five? (To Assist.)
Turn 'em round, to show the back view. And a 'arf! Six! And a 'arf! Only six and a 'arf bid
for this beautiful pair of figures, done direct from nature by BIMBI. Come, Gentlemen, come!
Seven! Was that you, Mr. GRIMES? (The Grubby Man admits the soft impeachment.) Seven and a
'arf. Eight! It's against you.

Mr. Grimes (with a supreme effort). Two-and-six!

    [Mops his brow with a red cotton handkerchief.

Auct. (in a tone of gratitude for the smallest mercies). Eight-ten-six. All done at eight-ten-six?
Going ... gone! GRIMES, Eight, ten, six. Take money for 'em. Now we come to a very 'andsome
work by PIFFALINI--"The Ocarina Player," one of this great artist's masterpieces, and an exceedingly
choice and high-class work, as you will all agree directly you see it. (To Assist.) Now, then,
Lot 14, there--look sharp!

Stolid Assist. "Hocarina Plier," eyn't arrived, Sir.

Auct. Oh, hasn't it? Very well, then. Lot 15. "The Pretty Pill-taker," by ANTONIO BILIO--a
really magnificent work of Art, Gentlemen. ("Pill-taker, 'ere!" from the S.A.) What'll you
give me for her? Come, make me an offer. (Bidding proceeds till the "Pill-taker" is knocked
down for twenty-three-and-a-half guineas.) Lot 16, "The Mixture as Before," by same artist--make
a charming and suitable companion to the last lot. What do you say, Mr. MIDDLEMAN--take it
at the same bidding? (Mr. M. assents, with the end of one eyebrow.) Any advance on twenty-three
and a 'arf? None? Then.--MIDDLEMAN, Twenty-four, thirteen, six.

Mr. Middleman (to the Amiable Spectator, who has been vaguely inspecting the "Pill-taker.")
Don't know if you noticed it, Sir, but I got that last couple very cheap--on'y forty-seven
guineas the pair, and they are worth eighty, I solemnly declare to you. I could get forty a-piece
for 'em to-morrow, upon my word and honour, I could. Ah, and I know who'd give it me for 'em, too!

The A.S. (sympathetically). Dear me, then you've done very well over it.

Mr. M. Ah, well ain't the word--and those two aren't the only lots I've got either. That "Sandwich-Man"
over there is mine--look at the work in those boards, and the nature in his clay pipe; and
"The Boot-Black," that's mine, too--all worth twice what I got 'em for--and lovely things,
too, ain't they?

The A.S. Oh, very nice, very clever--congratulate you, I'm sure.

Mr. M. I can see you've took a fancy to 'em, Sir, and, when I come across a gentleman that's
a connysewer, I'm always sorry to stand in his light; so, see here, you can have any one you
like out o' my little lot, or all on 'em, with all the pleasure in the wide world, Sir, and
I'll on'y charge you five per cent. on what I gave for 'em. and be exceedingly obliged to you,
into the bargain, Sir. (The A.S. feebly disclaims any desire to take advantage of this magnanimous
offer.) Don't say No, if you mean Yes, Sir. Will you 'ave the "Pill-taker," Sir?

The A.S. (politely). Thank you very much, but--er--I think not.

Mr. M. Then perhaps you could do with "The Little Boot-Black," or "The Sandwich-Man," Sir?

The A.S. Perhaps--but I could do still better without them.

    [He moves to another part of the room.

The Obl. Broker (whispering beerily in his ear). Seen anythink yet as takes your fancy, Sir;
'cos, if so--

    [The A.S. escapes to a dark corner--where he is warmly
    welcomed by Mr. MIDDLEMAN.

Mr. M. Knew you'd think better on it, Sir. Now which is it to be--the "Boot-Black," or "Mixture
as Before"?

Auct. Now we come to Lot 19. Massive fluted column in coral marble with revolving-top--a column,
Gentlemen, which will speak for itself.

The Facetious Bidder (after a scrutiny). Then it may as well mention, while it's about it,
that it's got a bit out of its back!

Auct. Flaw in the marble, that's all. (To Assist.) Nothing the matter with the column, is there?

Assist. (with reluctant candour). Well, it 'as got a little chipped, Sir.

Auct. (easily). Oh, very well then, we'll sell it "A.F." Very glad it was found out in time,
I'm sure.

    [Bidding proceeds.

First Dealer to Second (in a husky whisper). Talkin' o' Old Masters, I put young 'ANWAY up
to a good thing the other day.

Second D. (without surprise--probably from a knowledge of his friend's noble, unselfish nature).
Ah--'ow was that?

First D. Well, there was a picter as I 'appened to know could be got in for a deal under what
it ought--in good 'ands, mind yer--to fetch. It was a Morlan'--leastwise, it was so like you
couldn't ha' told the difference, if you understand my meanin'. (The other nods with complete
intelligence.) Well, I 'adn't no openin' for it myself just then, so I sez to young 'ANWAY,
"You might do worse than go and 'ave a look at it," I told him. And I run against him yesterday,
Wardour Street way, and I sez, "Did yer go and see that picter?" "Yes," sez he, "and what's
more, I got it at pretty much my own figger, too!" "Well," sez I, "and ain't yer goin' to shake
'ands with me over it?"

Second D. (interested). And did he?

First D. Yes, he did--he beyaved very fair over the matter, I will say that for him.

Second D. Oh, 'ANWAY's a very decent little feller--now.

Auct. (hopefully). Now, Gentlemen, this next lot'll tempt you, I'm sure! Lot 33, a magnificent
and very finely executed dramatic group out of the "Merchant of Venice," Othello in the act
of smothering Desdemona, both nearly life-size. (Assist., with a sardonic inflection. "Group
'ere, Gen'lm'n!") What shall we say for this great work by ROCCOCIPPI, Gentlemen? A hundred
guineas, just to start us?

The F.B. Can't you put the two figgers up separate?

Auct. You know better than that--being a group, Sir. Come, come, anyone give me a hundred for
this magnificent marble group! The figure of Othello very finely finished, Gentlemen.

The F.B. I should ha' thought it was her who was the finely finished one of the two.

Auct. (pained by this levity). Really, Gentlemen, do 'ave more appreciation of a 'igh-class
work like this!... Twenty-five guineas?... Nonsense! I can't put it up at that.

    [Bidding languishes. Lot withdrawn.

Second Disinterested Dealer (to First D.D., in an undertone). I wouldn't tell everyone, but
I shouldn't like to see you stay 'ere and waste your time; so, in case you was thinking of
waiting for that last lot, I may just as well mention--[Whispers.

First D.D. Ah, it's that way, is it? Much obliged to you for the 'int. But I'd do the same
for you any day.

Second D.D. I'm sure yer would!

    [They watch one another suspiciously.

Auct. Now 'ere's a tasteful thing, Gentlemen. Lot. 41. "Nymph eating Oysters" ("Nymph 'ere,
Gen'lm'n!"), by the celebrated Italian artist VABENE, one of the finest works of Art in this
room, and they're all exceedingly fine works of Art; but this is truly a work of Art, Gentlemen.
What shall we say for her, eh? (Silence.) Why, Gentlemen, no more appreciation than that? Come,
don't be afraid of it. Make a beginning. (Bidding starts.) Forty-five guineas. Forty-six--pounds.
Forty-six pounds only, this remarkable specimen of modern Italian Art. Forty-six and a 'arf.
Only forty-six ten bid for it. Give character to any gentleman's collection, a figure like
this would. Forty-seven pounds--guineas! and a 'arf.... Forty-seven and a 'arf guineas....
For the last time! Bidding with you, Sir. Forty-seven guineas and a 'arf--Gone! Name, Sir,
if you please. Oh, money? Very well. Thank you.

Proud Purchaser (to Friend, in excuse for his extravagance). You see, I must have something
for that grotto I've got in the grounds.

His Friend. If she was mine, I should put her in the hall, and have a gaslight fitted in the
oyster-shell.

P.P. (thoughtfully). Not a bad idea. But electric light would be more suitable, and easier
to fix too. Yes--we'll see.

The Obl. Broker (pursuing the Am. Spect.). I 'ope, Sir, you'll remember me, next time you're
this way.

The Am. Spect. (who has only ransomed himself by taking over an odd lot, consisting of imitation
marble fruit, a model, under crystal, of the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and three busts of Italian
celebrities of whom he has never heard). I'm afraid I shan't have very much chance of forgetting
you. Good afternoon!

    [Exit hurriedly, dropping the fruit, as Scene closes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM OUR MUSIC HALL.

I had a fine performance at my little place last week. Gave the Elijah with a chorus whose
vigorous delivery and precision were excellent, and except for uncertain intonation of soprani
in first chorus, I think though perhaps I say it who shouldn't, I never heard better chorussing
within my walls. Madame SCHMIDT-KOEHNE has a good voice, but I can't say I approve of her German
method, nor do I like embellishments of text, even when they can be justified. The contralto,
Madame SVIATLOVSKY (O Heavenly name that ends in sky!) is not what I should have expected,
coming to us with such a name. Perhaps not heard to advantage: perhaps 'vantage to me if I
hadn't heard her. But Miss SARAH BERRY brought down the house just as SAMSON did, and we were
Berry'd all alive, O, and applauding beautifully. Brava, Miss SARAH BERRY!

"As we are hearing Elijah," says Mr. Corner Man, "may I ask you, Sir, what Queen in Scripture
History this young lady reminds me of?" Of course I reply, "I give it up, Sir." Whereupon he
answers, "She reminds me, Sir, of the Queen who was BERENICÉ--'Berry-Nicey'--see?"

Number next in the books. Mr. WATKIN MILLS was dignified and impressive as Elijah; but, while
admitting the excellence of this profit, we can't forget our loss in the absence of Mr. SANTLEY.
BEN MIO DAVIES sang the tenor music, but apologised for having unfortunately got a pony on
the event,--that is, he had got a little hoarse during the day. "BEN MIO" is--um--rather troppo
operatico for the oratorio. Mr. BARNBY bravely bâtoned, as usual. Bravo, BARNBY! He goes on
with the work because he likes it. Did he not, he would say with the General Bombastes--

                      "Give o'er! give o'er!
  For I will bâton on this tune no more."

Perhaps the quotation is not quite exact, but no matter, all's well that ends well, as everyone
said as they left.

  Yours truly,
  ALBERT HALL.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. VII.--A BUCCANEER'S BLOOD-BATH.

BY L.S. DEEVENSON, AUTHOR OF "TOLDON DRYLAND," "THE WHITE HETON," "WENTNAP," "AMISS WITH A
CANDLETRAY," "AN OUTLANDISH TRIP," "A TRAVELLED DONKEY," "A QUEER FALL ON A TREACLE SLIDE,"
"THE OLD PERSIAN BARONETS," &C., &C., &C.

    [For some weeks before this Novel actually arrived, we
    received by every post an immense consignment of paragraphs,
    notices, and newspaper cuttings, all referring to it in
    glowing terms. "This" observed the Bi-weekly Boomer, "is,
    perhaps, the most brilliant effort of the brilliant and
    versatile Author's genius. Humour and pathos are inextricably
    blended in it. He sweeps with confident finger over the whole
    gamut of human emotions, and moves us equally to terror and
    to pity. Of the style, it is sufficient to say that it is Mr.
    DEEVENSON's." The MS. of the Novel itself came in a wrapper
    bearing the Samoan post-mark.--ED. Punch.]

CHAPTER I.

I am a man stricken in years, and-well-nigh spent with labour, yet it behoves that, for the
public good, I should take pen in hand, and set down the truth of those matters wherein I played
a part. And, indeed, it may befall that, when the tale is put forth in print, the public may
find it to their liking, and buy it with no sparing hand, so that, at the last, the payment
shall be worthy of the labourer.

I have never been gifted with what pedants miscall courage. That extreme rashness of the temper
which drives fools to their destruction hath no place in my disposition. A shrinking meekness
under provocation, and a commendable absence of body whenever blows fell thick, seemed always
to me to be the better part. And for this I have boldly endured many taunts. Yet it so chanced
that in my life I fell in with many to whom the cutting of throats was but a moment's diversion.
Nay, more, in most of their astounding ventures I shared with them; I made one upon their reckless
forays; I was forced, sorely against my will, to accompany them upon their stormy voyages,
and to endure with them their dangers; and there does not live one man, since all of them are
dead, and I alone survive, so well able as myself to narrate these matters faithfully within
the compass of a single five-shilling volume.

CHAPTER II.

On a December evening of the year 17--, ten men sat together in the parlour of "The Haunted
Man." Without, upon the desolate moorland, a windless stricture of frost had bound the air
as though in boards, but within, the tongues were loosened, and the talk flowed merrily, and
the clink of steaming tumblers filled the room. Dr. DEADEYE sat with the rest at the long deal
table, puffing mightily at the brown old Broseley church-warden, whom the heat and the comfort
of his evening meal had so far conquered, that he resented the doctor's treatment of him only
by an occasional splutter. For myself, I sat where the warmth of the cheerful fire could reach
my chilled toes, close by the side of the good doctor. I was a mere lad, and even now, as I
search in my memory for these long-forgotten scenes, I am prone to marvel at my own heedlessness
in thus affronting these lawless men. But, indeed, I knew them not to be lawless, or I doubt
not but that my prudence had counselled me to withdraw ere the events befell which I am now
about to narrate.

As I remember, the Doctor and Captain JAWKINS were seated opposite to one another, and, as
their wont was, they were in high debate upon a question of navigation, on which the Doctor
held and expressed an emphatic opinion.

"Never tell me," he said, with flaming aspect, "that the common term, 'Port your helm,' implies
aught but what a man, not otherwise foolish, would gather from the word. Port means port, and
starboard is starboard, and all the d----d sea-captains in the world cannot move me from that."
With that the Doctor beat his fist upon the table until the glasses rattled again and glared
into the Captain's weather-beaten face.[1]

"Hear the man," said the Captain--"hear him. A man would think he had spent his days and nights
upon the sea, instead of mixing pills and powders all his life in a snuffy village dispensary."

The quarrel seemed like to be fierce, when a sudden sound struck upon our ears, and stopped
all tongues. I cannot call it a song. Rather, it was like the moon-struck wailing of some unhappy
dog, low, and unearthly; and yet not that, either, for there were words to it. That much we
all heard distinctly.

  "Fifteen two and a pair make four,
  Two for his heels, and that makes six."

We listened, awestruck, with blanched faces, scarce daring to look at one another. For myself,
I am bold to confess that I crept under the sheltering table and hid my head in my hands. Again
the mournful notes were moaned forth--

  "Fifteen two and a pair make four,
  Two for his heels, and--"

But ere it was ended, Captain JAWKINS had sprung forward, and rushed into the further corner
of the parlour. "I know that voice," he cried aloud; "I know it amid a thousand!" And even
as he spoke, a strange light dispelled the shadows, and by its rays we could see the crouching
form of BILL BLUENOSE, with the red seam across his face where the devil had long since done
his work.

CHAPTER III.

I had forgot to say that, as he ran, the Captain had drawn his sword. In the confusion which
followed on the discovery of BLUENOSE, I could not rightly tell how each thing fell out; indeed,
from where I lay, with the men crowding together in front of me, to see at all was no easy
matter. But this I saw clearly. The Captain stood in the corner, his blade raised to strike.
BLUENOSE never stirred, but his breath came and went, and his eyelids blinked strangely, like
the flutter of a sere leaf against the wall. There came a roar of voices, and, in the tumult,
the Captain's sword flashed quickly, and fell. Then, with a broken cry like a sheep's bleat,
the great seamed face fell separate from the body, and a fountain of blood rose into the air
from the severed neck, and splashed heavily upon the sanded floor of the parlour.

"Man, man!" cried the Doctor, angrily, "what have ye done? Ye've kilt BLUENOSE, and with him
goes our chance of the treasure. But, maybe, it's not yet too late."

So saying, he plucked the head from the floor and clapped it again upon its shoulders. Then,
drawing a long stick of sealing-wax from his pocket, he held it well before the Captain's ruddy
face. The wax splattered and melted. The Doctor applied it to the cut with deft fingers, and
with a strange condescension of manner in one so proud. My heart beat like a bird's, both quick
and little; and on a sudden BLUENOSE raised his dripping hands, and in a quavering kind of
voice piped out--

  "Fifteen two and a pair make four."

But we had heard too much, and the next moment we were speeding with terror at our backs across
the desert moorland.

CHAPTER IV.

You are to remember that when the events I have narrated befell I was but a lad, and had a
lad's horror of that which smacked of the supernatural. As we ran, I must have fallen in a
swoon, for I remember nothing more until I found myself walking with trembling feet through
the policies of the ancient mansion of Dearodear. By my side strode a young nobleman, whom
I straightway recognised as the Master. His gallant bearing and handsome face served but to
conceal the black heart that beat within his breast. He gazed at me with a curious look in
his eyes.

"SQUARETOES, SQUARETOES," said he--it was thus he had named me, and by that I knew that we
were in Scotland, and that my name was become MACKELLAR--"I have a mind to end your prying
and your lectures here where we stand."

"End it," said I, with a boldness which seemed strange to me even as I spoke; "end it, and
where will you be? A penniless beggar and an outcast."

"The old fool speaks truly," he continued, kicking me twice violently in the back, but otherwise
ignoring my presence; "and if I end him, who shall tell the story? Nay, SQUARETOES, let us
make a compact. I will play the villain, and brawl, and cheat, and murder; you shall take notes
of my actions, and, after I have died dramatically in a North American forest, you shall set
up a stone to my memory, and publish the story. What say you? Your hand upon it."

Such was the fascination of the man that even then I could not withstand him. Moreover, the
measure of his misdeeds was not yet full. My caution prevailed, and I gave him my hand.

"Done!" said he; "and a very good bargain for you, SQUARETOES!"

Let the public, then, judge between me and the Master, since of his house not one remains,
and I alone may write the tale.

(To be continued.--Author.) THE END.--Ed. Punch.

[Footnote 1: Editor to Author: "How did the glasses manage to glare? It seems an odd proceeding
for a glass. Answer paid."

Author to Editor: "Don't be a fool. I meant the Doctor--not the glasses."]

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Children of the Castle, by Mrs. MOLESWORTH (published by MACMILLAN), will certainly be
a favourite with the children in the house. A quaintly pretty story of child life and fairies,
such as she can write so well, it is valuably assisted with Illustrations by WALTER CRANE.

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE evidently means to catch the youthful book-worm's eye by the brilliancy of
his bindings, but the attraction will not stay there long, for the contents are equal to the
covers.

These are days of reminiscences, so "Bob," the Spotted Terrier, writes his own tale, or, wags
it. Illustrations by HARRISON WEIR. And here for the tiny ones, bless 'em, is The House that
Jack Built,--a paper book in actually the very shape of the house he built! And then there's
the melancholy but moral tale of Froggy would a-Wooing Go. "Recommended," says the Baron.

Published by DEAN AND SON, who should call their publishing establishment "The Deanery," is
The Doyle Fairy Book, a splendid collection of regular fairy lore; and the Illustrations are
by RICHARD DOYLE, which needs nothing more.

The Mistletoe Bough, edited by M.E. BRADDON, is not only very strong to send forth so many
sprigs, but it is a curious branch, as from each sprig hangs a tale. The first, by the Editor
and Authoress, His Oldest Friends, is excellent.

Flowers of The Hunt, by FINCH MASON, published by Messrs. FORES. Rather too spring-like a title
for a sporting book, as it suggests hunting for flowers. Sketchy and amusing.

HACHETTE AND CIE, getting ahead of Christmas, and neck and neck with the New Year, issue a
Nouveau Calendrier Perpéteul, "Les Amis Fidèles," representing three poodles, the first of
which carries in his mouth the day of the week, the second the day of the month, and the third
the name of the month. This design is quaint, and if not absolutely original, is new in the
combination and application. Unfortunately it only suggests one period of the year, the dog-days,
but in 1892 this can be improved upon, and amplified.

No nursery would be complete without a Chatterbox, and, as a reward to keep him quiet, The
Prize would come in useful. WELLS, DARTON, & GARDNER, can supply both of them.

F. WARNE has another Birthday-book, Fortune's Mirror, Set in Gems, by M. HALFORD, with Illustrations
by KATE CRAUFORD. A novel idea of setting the mirror in the binding; but, to find your fortune,
you must look inside, and then you will see what gem ought to be worn in the month of your birth.

WILLERT BEALE's Light of Other Days is most interesting to those who, like the Baron, remember
the latter days of GRISI and MARIO, who can call to mind MARIO in Les Huguenots, in Trovatore,
in Rigoletto; and GRISI in Norma, Valentina, Fides, Lucrezia, and some others. It seems to
me that the centre of attraction in these two volumes is the history of MARIO and GRISI on
and off the stage; and the gem of all is the simple narrative of Mrs. GODFREY PEARSE, their
daughter, which M. WILLERT BEALE has had the good taste to give verbatim, with few notes or
comments. To think that only twenty years ago we lost GRISI, and that only nine years ago MARIO
died in Rome! Peace to them both! In Art they were a glorious couple, and in their death our
thoughts cannot divide them. GRISI and MARIO, Queen and King of song, inseparable. I have never
looked upon their like again, and probably never shall. My tribute to their memory is, to advise
all those to whom their memory is dear, and those to whom their memory is but a tradition,
to read these Reminiscences, of them and of others, by WILLERT BEALE, in order to learn all
they can about this romantic couple, who, caring little for money, and everything for their
art, were united in life, in love, in work, and, let us, peccatores, humbly hope, in death.
WILLERT BEALE has, in his Reminiscences, given us a greater romance of real life than will
be found in twenty volumes of novels, by the most eminent authors. Yet all so naturally and
so simply told. At least so, with moist eyes, says your tender-hearted critic,

THE SYMPATHETIC BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

WIGS AND RADICALS.

    ["As a protest against the acceptance by the Corporation of
    Sunderland of robes, wigs, and cocked hats, for the Mayor and
    Town Clerk, Mr. STOREY, M.P., has sent in his resignation of
    the office of Alderman of that body."--Daily Paper.]

Brutus. Tell us what has chanced to-day, that STOREY looks so sad.

Casca. Why, for that too--not to mention a municipal robe.

