"This letter is written to introduce them to you.  I know your infirm health; but I am sure,
if you were stretched on your bed in your last illness, and could lift your hand at all, you
would extend it to welcome these poor hunted fellow-creatures.  Henceforth, England is their
nation and their home.  It is with real regret for our personal loss in their departure, as
well as burning shame for the land that is not worthy of them, that we send them away, or rather
allow them to go. But, with all the resolute courage they have shown in a most trying hour,
they themselves see it is the part of a foolhardy rashness to attempt to stay here longer.

"I must close; and with many renewed thanks for all your kind words and deeds towards us,

"I am, very respectfully yours,

"SAMUEL MAY, JUN."

Our old masters, having heard how their agents were treated at Boston, wrote to Mr. Filmore,
who was then President of the States, to know what he could do to have us sent back to slavery.
Mr. Filmore said that we should be returned.  He gave instructions for military force to be
sent to Boston to assist the officers in making the arrest. Therefore we, as well as our friends
(among whom was George Thompson, Esq., late M.P. for the Tower Hamlets--the slave's long-tried,
self-sacrificing friend, and eloquent advocate) thought it best, at any sacrifice, to leave
the mock-free Republic, and come to a country where we and our dear little ones can be truly
free.--"No one daring to molest or make us afraid."  But, as the officers were watching every
vessel that left the port to prevent us from escaping, we had to take the expensive and tedious
overland route to Halifax.

We shall always cherish the deepest feelings of gratitude to the Vigilance Committee of Boston
(upon which were many of the leading abolitionists), and also to our numerous friends, for
the very kind and noble manner in which they assisted us to preserve our liberties and to escape
from Boston, as it were like Lot from Sodom, to a place of refuge, and finally to this truly
free and glorious country; where no tyrant, let his power be ever so absolute over his poor
trembling victims at home, dare come and lay violent hands upon us or upon our dear little
boys (who had the good fortune to be born upon British soil), and reduce us to the legal level
of the beast that perisheth. Oh! may God bless the thousands of unflinching, disinterested
abolitionists of America, who are labouring through evil as well as through good report, to
cleanse their country's escutcheon from the foul and destructive blot of slavery, and to restore
to every bondman his God-given rights; and may God ever smile upon England and upon England's
good, much-beloved, and deservedly-honoured Queen, for the generous protection that is given
to unfortunate refugees of every rank, and of every colour and clime.

On the passing of the Fugitive Slave Bill, the following learned doctors, as well as a host
of lesser traitors, came out strongly in its defence.

The Rev. Dr. Gardiner Spring, an eminent Presbyterian Clergyman of New York, well known in
this country by his religious publications, declared from the pulpit that, "if by one prayer
he could liberate every slave in the world he would not dare to offer it."

The Rev. Dr. Joel Parker, of Philadelphia, in the course of a discussion on the nature of Slavery,
says, "What, then, are the evils inseparable from slavery?  There is not one that is not equally
inseparable from depraved human nature in other lawful relations."

The Rev. Moses Stuart, D.D., (late Professor in the Theological College of Andover), in his
vindication of this Bill, reminds his readers that "many Southern slaveholders are true CHRISTIANS."
That "sending back a fugitive to them is not like restoring one to an idolatrous people." That
"though we may PITY the fugitive, yet the Mosaic Law does not authorize the rejection of the
claims of the slaveholders to their stolen or strayed PROPERTY."

The Rev. Dr. Spencer, of Brooklyn, New York, has come forward in support of the "Fugitive Slave
Bill," by publishing a sermon entitled the "Religious Duty of Obedience to the Laws," which
has elicited the highest encomiums from Dr. Samuel H. Cox, the Presbyterian minister of Brooklyn
(notorious both in this country and America for his sympathy with the slaveholder).

The Rev. W. M. Rogers, an orthodox minister of Boston, delivered a sermon in which he says,
"When the slave asks me to stand between him and his master, what does he ask?  He asks me
to murder a nation's life; and I will not do it, because I have a conscience,--because there
is a God."  He proceeds to affirm that if resistance to the carrying out of the "Fugitive Slave
Law" should lead the magistracy to call the citizens to arms, their duty was to obey and "if
ordered to take human life, in the name of God to take it;" and he concludes by admonishing
the fugitives to "hearken to the Word of God, and to count their own masters worthy of all honour."

The Rev. William Crowell, of Waterfield, State of Maine, printed a Thanksgiving Sermon of the
same kind, in which he calls upon his hearers not to allow "excessive sympathies for a few
hundred fugitives to blind them so that they may risk increased suffering to the millions already
in chains."

The Rev. Dr. Taylor, an Episcopal Clergyman of New Haven, Connecticut, made a speech at a Union
Meeting, in which he deprecates the agitation on the law, and urges obedience to it; asking,--"Is
that article in the Constitution contrary to the law of Nature, of nations, or to the will
of God?  Is it so?  Is there a shadow of reason for saying it?  I have not been able to discover
it.  Have I not shown you it is lawful to deliver up, in compliance with the laws, fugitive
slaves, for the high, the great, the momentous interests of those [Southern] States?"

The Right Rev. Bishop Hopkins, of Vermont, in a Lecture at Lockport, says, "It was warranted
by the Old Testament;" and inquires, "What effect had the Gospel in doing away with slavery?
None whatever." Therefore he argues, as it is expressly permitted by the Bible, it does not
in itself involve any sin; but that every Christian is authorised by the Divine Law to own
slaves, provided they were not treated with unnecessary cruelty.

The Rev. Orville Dewey, D.D., of the Unitarian connexion, maintained in his lectures that the
safety of the Union is not to be hazarded for the sake of the African race.  He declares that,
for his part, he would send his own brother or child into slavery, if needed to preserve the
Union between the free and the slaveholding States; and, counselling the slave to similar magnanimity,
thus exhorts him:--"YOUR RIGHT TO BE FREE IS NOT ABSOLUTE, UNQUALIFIED, IRRESPECTIVE OF ALL
CONSEQUENCES. If my espousal of your claim is likely to involve your race and mine together
in disasters infinitely greater than your personal servitude, then you ought not to be free.
In such a case personal rights ought to be sacrificed to the general good.  You yourself ought
to see this, and be willing to suffer for a while--one for many."

If the Doctor is prepared, he is quite at liberty to sacrifice his "personal rights to the
general good."  But, as I have suffered a long time in slavery, it is hardly fair for the Doctor
to advise me to go back.  According to his showing, he ought rather to take my place. That
would be practically carrying out his logic, as respects "suffering awhile--one for many."

In fact, so eager were they to prostrate themselves before the great idol of slavery, and,
like Balaam, to curse instead of blessing the people whom God had brought out of bondage, that
they in bring up obsolete passages from the Old Testament to justify their downward course,
overlooked, or would not see, the following verses, which show very clearly, according to the
Doctor's own textbook, that the slaves have a right to run away, and that it is unscriptural
for any one to send them back.

"Hide the outcast.  Bewray not him that wandereth.  Let mine outcasts dwell with thee.  Be
thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler."--(Isa. xvi. 3, 4.)

The great majority of the American ministers are not content with uttering sentences similar
to the above, or remaining wholly indifferent to the cries of the poor bondman; but they do
all they can to blast the reputation, and to muzzle the mouths, of the few good men who dare
to beseech the God of mercy "to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and
let the oppressed go free." These reverend gentlemen pour a terrible cannonade upon "Jonah,"
for refusing to carry God's message against Nineveh, and tell us about the whale in which he
was entombed; while they utterly overlook the existence of the whales which trouble their republican
waters, and know not that they themselves are the "Jonahs" who threaten to sink their ship
of state, by steering in an unrighteous direction.  We are told that the whale vomited up the
runaway prophet.  This would not have seemed so strange, had it been one of the above lukewarm
Doctors of Divinity whom he had swallowed; for even a whale might find such a morsel difficult
of digestion.

  "I venerate the man whose heart is warm,
  Whose hands are pure; whose doctrines and whose life
  Coincident, exhibit lucid proof
  That he is honest in the sacred cause."

I must now leave the reverend gentlemen in the hands of Him who knows best how to deal with
a recreant ministry.

I do not wish it to be understood that all the ministers of the States are of the Balaam stamp.
There are those who are as uncompromising with slaveholders as Moses was with Pharaoh, and,
like Daniel, will never bow down before the great false God that has been set up.

On arriving at Portland, we found that the steamer we intended to take had run into a schooner
the previous night, and was lying up for repairs; so we had to wait there, in fearful suspense,
for two or three days.  During this time, we had the honour of being the guest of the late
and much lamented Daniel Oliver, Esq., one of the best and most hospitable men in the State.
By simply fulfilling the Scripture injunction, to take in the stranger, &c., he ran the risk
of incurring a penalty of 2,000 dollars, and twelve months' imprisonment.

But neither the Fugitive Slave Law, nor any other Satanic enactment, can ever drive the spirit
of liberty and humanity out of such noble and generous-hearted men.

May God ever bless his dear widow, and eventually unite them in His courts above!

We finally got off to St. John's, New Brunswick, where we had to wait two days for the steamer
that conveyed us to Windsor, Nova Scotia.

On going into a hotel at St. John's, we met the butler in the hall, to whom I said, "We wish
to stop here to-night."  He turned round, scratching his head, evidently much put about.  But
thinking that my wife was white, he replied, "We have plenty of room for the lady, but I don't
know about yourself; we never take in coloured folks."  "Oh, don't trouble about me," I said;
"if you have room for the lady, that will do; so please have the luggage taken to a bed-room."
Which was immediately done, and my wife went upstairs into the apartment.

After taking a little walk in the town, I returned, and asked to see the "lady."  On being
conducted to the little sitting-room, where she then was, I entered without knocking, much
to the surprise of the whole house.  The "lady" then rang the bell, and ordered dinner for
two. "Dinner for two, mum!" exclaimed the waiter, as he backed out of the door.  "Yes, for
two," said my wife.  In a little while the stout, red-nosed butler, whom we first met, knocked
at the door.  I called out, "Come in."  On entering, he rolled his whisky eyes at me, and then
at my wife, and said, in a very solemn tone, "Did you order dinner for two, mum?" "Yes, for
two," my wife again replied.  This confused the chubby butler more than ever; and, as the landlord
was not in the house, he seemed at a loss what to do.

When dinner was ready, the maid came in and said, "Please, mum, the Missis wishes to know whether
you will have dinner up now, or wait till your friend arrives?"  "I will have it up at once,
if you please." "Thank you, mum," continued the maid, and out she glided.

After a good deal of giggling in the passage, some one said, "You are in for it, butler, after
all; so you had better make the best of a bad job."  But before dinner was sent up, the landlord
returned, and having heard from the steward of the steamer by which we came that we were bound
for England, the proprietor's native country, he treated us in the most respectful manner.

At the above house, the boots (whose name I forget) was a fugitive slave, a very intelligent
and active man, about forty-five years of age.  Soon after his marriage, while in slavery,
his bride was sold away from him, and he could never learn where the poor creature dwelt. So
after remaining single for many years, both before and after his escape, and never expecting
to see again, nor even to hear from, his long-lost partner, he finally married a woman at St.
John's.  But, poor fellow, as he was passing down the street one day, he met a woman; at the
first glance they nearly recognized each other; they both turned round and stared, and unconsciously
advanced, till she screamed and flew into his arms.  Her first words were, "Dear, are you married?"
On his answering in the affirmative, she shrank from his embrace, hung her head, and wept.
A person who witnessed this meeting told me it was most affecting.

This couple knew nothing of each other's escape or whereabouts.  The woman had escaped a few
years before to the free States, by secreting herself in the hold of a vessel; but as they
tried to get her back to bondage, she fled to New Brunswick for that protection which her native
country was too mean to afford.

The man at once took his old wife to see his new one, who was also a fugitive slave, and as
they all knew the workings of the infamous system of slavery, the could (as no one else can,)
sympathise with each other's misfortune.

According to the rules of slavery, the man and his first wife were already divorced, but not
morally; and therefore it was arranged between the three that he should live only with the
lastly married wife, and allow the other one so much a week, as long as she requested his assistance.

After staying at St. John's two days, the steamer arrived, which took us to Windsor, where
we found a coach bound for Halifax.  Prejudice against colour forced me on the top in the rain.
On arriving within about seven miles of the town, the coach broke down and was upset.  I fell
upon the big crotchety driver, whose head stuck in the mud; and as he "always objected to niggers
riding inside with white folks," I was not particularly sorry to see him deeper in the mire
than myself.  All of us were scratched and bruised more or less.  After the passengers had
crawled out as best they could, we all set off, and paddled through the deep mud and cold and
rain, to Halifax.

On leaving Boston, it was our intention to reach Halifax at least two or three days before
the steamer from Boston touched there, en route for Liverpool; but, having been detained so
long at Portland and St. John's, we had the misfortune to arrive at Halifax at dark, just two
hours after the steamer had gone; consequently we had to wait there a fortnight, for the Cambria.

The coach was patched up, and reached Halifax with the luggage, soon after the passengers arrived.
The only respectable hotel that was then in the town had suspended business, and was closed;
so we went to the inn, opposite the market, where the coach stopped: a most miserable, dirty
hole it was.

Knowing that we were still under the influence of the low Yankee prejudice, I sent my wife
in with the other passengers, to engage a bed for herself and husband.  I stopped outside in
the rain till the coach came up.  If I had gone in and asked for a bed they would have been
quite full.  But as they thought my wife was white, she had no difficulty in securing apartments,
into which the luggage was afterwards carried.  The landlady, observing that I took an interest
in the baggage, became somewhat uneasy, and went into my wife's room, and said to her, "Do
you know the dark man downstairs?" "Yes, he is my husband."  "Oh!  I mean the black man--the
NIGGER?"  "I quite understand you; he is my husband."  "My God!" exclaimed the woman as she
flounced out and banged to the door.  On going upstairs, I heard what had taken place: but,
as we were there, and did not mean to leave that night, we did not disturb ourselves.  On our
ordering tea, the landlady sent word back to say that we must take it in the kitchen, or in
our bed-room, as she had no other room for "niggers." We replied that we were not particular,
and that they could sent it up to our room,--which they did.

After the pro-slavery persons who were staying there heard that we were in, the whole house
became agitated, and all sorts of oaths and fearful threats were heaped upon the "d----d niggers,
for coming among white folks."  Some of them said they would not stop there a minute if there
was another house to go to.

The mistress came up the next morning to know how long we wished to stop.  We said a fortnight.
"Oh! dear me, it is impossible for us to accommodate you, and I think you had better go: you
must understand, I have no prejudice myself; I think a good deal of the coloured people, and
have always been their friend; but if you stop here we shall lose all our customers, which
we can't do nohow."  We said we were glad to hear that she had "no prejudice," and was such
a staunch friend to the coloured people.  We also informed her that we would be sorry for her
"customers" to leave on our account; and as it was not our intention to interfere with anyone,
it was foolish for them to be frightened away. However, if she would get us a comfortable place,
we would be glad to leave.  The landlady said she would go out and try.  After spending the
whole morning in canvassing the town, she came to our room and said, "I have been from one
end of the place to the other, but everybody is full."  Having a little foretaste of the vulgar
prejudice of the town, we did not wonder at this result.  However, the landlady gave me the
address of some respectable coloured families, whom she thought, "under the circumstances,"
might be induced to take us.  And, as we were not at all comfortable--being compelled to sit,
eat and sleep, in the same small room--we were quite willing to change our quarters.

I called upon the Rev. Mr. Cannady, a truly good-hearted Christian man, who received us at
a word; and both he and his kind lady treated us handsomely, and for a nominal charge.

My wife and myself were both unwell when we left Boston, and, having taken fresh cold on the
journey to Halifax, we were laid up there under the doctor's care, nearly the whole fortnight.
I had much worry about getting tickets, for they baffled us shamefully at the Cunard office.
They at first said that they did not book till the steamer came; which was not the fact.  When
I called again, they said they knew the steamer would come full from Boston, and therefore
we had "better try to get to Liverpool by other means." Other mean Yankee excuses were made;
and it was not till an influential gentleman, to whom Mr. Francis Jackson, of Boston, kindly
gave us a letter, went and rebuked them, that we were able to secure our tickets.  So when
we went on board my wife was very poorly, and was also so ill on the voyage that I did not
believe she could live to see Liverpool.

However, I am thankful to say she arrived; and, after laying up at Liverpool very ill for two
or three weeks, gradually recovered.

It was not until we stepped upon the shore at Liverpool that we were free from every slavish fear.

We raised our thankful hearts to Heaven, and could have knelt down, like the Neapolitan exiles,
and kissed the soil; for we felt that from slavery

  "Heaven sure had kept this spot of earth uncurs'd,
  To show how all things were created first."

In a few days after we landed, the Rev. Francis Bishop and his lady came and invited us to
be their guests; to whose unlimited kindness and watchful care my wife owes, in a great degree,
her restoration to health.

We enclosed our letter from the Rev. Mr. May to Mr. Estlin, who at once wrote to invite us
to his house at Bristol.  On arriving there, both Mr. and Miss Estlin received us as cordially
as did our first good Quaker friends in Pennsylvania.  It grieves me much to have to mention
that he is no more.  Everyone who knew him can truthfully say--

  "Peace to the memory of a man of worth,
  A man of letters, and of manners too!
  Of manners sweet as Virtue always wears
  When gay Good-nature dresses her in smiles."

It was principally through the extreme kindness of Mr. Estlin, the Right Hon. Lady Noel Byron,
Miss Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Reid, Miss Sturch, and a few other good friends, that my wife
and myself were able to spend a short time at a school in this country, to acquire a little
of that education which we were so shamefully deprived of while in the house of bondage.  The
school is under the supervision of the Misses Lushington, D.C.L.  During our stay at the school
we received the greatest attention from every one; and I am particularly indebted to Thomas
Wilson, Esq., of Bradmore House, Chiswick, (who was then the master,) for the deep interest
he took in trying to get me on in my studies.  We shall ever fondly and gratefully cherish
the memory of our endeared and departed friend, Mr. Estlin.  We, as well as the Anti-Slavery
cause, lost a good friend in him.  However, if departed spirits in Heaven are conscious of
the wickedness of this world, and are allowed to speak, he will never fail to plead in the
presence of the angelic host, and before the great and just Judge, for down-trodden and outraged
humanity.

  "Therefore I cannot think thee wholly gone;
    The better part of thee is with us still;
  Thy soul its hampering clay aside hath thrown,
   And only freer wrestles with the ill.

  "Thou livest in the life of all good things;
    What words thou spak'st for Freedom shall not die;
  Thou sleepest not, for now thy Love hath wings
   To soar where hence thy hope could hardly fly.

  "And often, from that other world, on this
   Some gleams from great souls gone before may shine,
  To shed on struggling hearts a clearer bliss,
   And clothe the Right with lustre more divine.

  "Farewell! good man, good angel now! this hand
    Soon, like thine own, shall lose its cunning, too;
  Soon shall this soul, like thine, bewildered stand,
   Then leap to thread the free unfathomed blue."

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.

