REMINISCENCES OF SCOTTISH LIFE & CHARACTER

BY THE LATE E. B. RAMSAY, LL.D., F.R.S.E.

DEAN OF EDINBURGH

Twenty-Second Edition, Enlarged, With the Author's Latest Corrections and Additions

And a Memoir of Dean Ramsay

By Cosmo Innes

1874

CONTENTS.

MEMOIR OF DEAN RAMSAY

PREFACE TO TWENTY-SECOND EDITION

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY

CHAPTER II.

SCOTTISH RELIGIOUS FEELINGS AND OBSERVANCES

CHAPTER III.

ON OLD SCOTTISH CONVIVIALITY

CHAPTER IV.

ON THE OLD SCOTTISH DOMESTIC SERVANT

CHAPTER V.

SCOTTISH JUDGES

CHAPTER VI.

ON HUMOUR PROCEEDING FROM SCOTTISH EXPRESSIONS, INCLUDING SCOTTISH PROVERBS

CHAPTER VII.

ON SCOTTISH STORIES OF WIT AND HUMOUR

CONCLUSION

INDEX

MEMOIR OF DEAN RAMSAY.

I.

The friends of Dean Ramsay desiring a memorial of his life, his friendly publishers, and his
nearest relatives, have asked me to undertake the work, and placed in my hands some materials
giving authentic facts and dates, and illustrating the Dean's own views on the leading events
of his life.

I feel myself excluded from dealing with one important part of such a life, for I could not
take upon me to speak with confidence or authority upon church doctrines or church government.
On the other hand, for the man I have that full sympathy which I suppose ought to exist between
the writer and the subject of the biography.

We were very old friends, natives of the same district, bred among a people peculiar in manners
and language, a people abounding in a racy humour, differing from what prevails in most parts
of Scotland--a peculiarity which it was the joy of the Dean to bring before his countrymen
in his Reminiscences; and although he and I were not kindred of blood, his relatives and friends
were very much mine, and my uncles and aunts were also his.

Edward Bannerman Burnett, known in after life as Edward Ramsay, and Dean of Edinburgh, was
born at Aberdeen on the last day of January 1793. His father, Alexander, second son of Sir
Thomas Burnett, Baronet, of Leys, was an advocate, and sheriff of Kincardineshire, where the
family estates lay. The sheriff was of delicate constitution, and travelled in the south of
Europe for his health, until obliged to fly from the French Revolution; and at Aberdeen, the
first place where he and his wife stopped, Edward was born. The Dean's mother was Elizabeth,
the elder daughter of Sir Alexander Bannerman of Elsick, and she and her sister Mary, afterwards
Mrs. Russell, were co-heirs of his estates in the pretty valley of the Feugh, including the
whole parish of Strachan, of which the southern part, looking over into the How of the Mearns,
was Mrs. Burnett's portion; the northern, with the beautiful bank of Dee where Blackhall stands,
falling to Mrs. Russell. Both sisters were eminently handsome. I have a tradition of the young
ladies, when they first came from their York school to Edinburgh, being followed and gazed
at by passengers in the streets, for their beauty; and there are many still living in Edinburgh
who long after gazed with admiration on the fine old lady, the Dean's mother, bending over
her embroidery frame in her window in Darnaway Street.

Alexander Burnett and his wife Elizabeth Bannerman had a large family. Edward, the fourth son,
when very young, was taken by his grand-uncle, Sir Alexander Ramsay, and sent to school near
his own house at Harlsey in Yorkshire. Edward's first school, to which he was sent in 1801,
made a remarkable impression upon the Dean's memory. "I believe," he says, "at that period
(the very beginning of the century) it was about the most retired village in England not of
a mountainous district. No turnpike road went through the parish. It lay in the line of no
thoroughfare. The only inhabitants of education were the clergyman, a man of great simplicity
of character, who had never been at the University, and my great-uncle, of above fourscore,
and a recluse. The people were uneducated to an extent now unusual. Nearly all the letters
of the village were written by my uncle's gardener, a Scotchman, who, having the degree of
education usual with his countrymen of the profession, and who being very good natured, had
abundant occupation for his evenings, and being, moreover, a prudent man, and safe, became
the depository of nine-tenths of the family secrets of the inhabitants. Being thus ignorant
generally, and few of them ever having been twenty miles from the place, I may consider the
parish fifty years behind the rest of the world when I went there, so that it now furnishes
recollection of rural people, of manners and intelligence, dating back a hundred years from
the present time. It was indeed a very primitive race; and it is curious to recall the many
indications afforded in that obscure village of unmitigated ignorance. With all this were found
in full exercise also the more violent and vindictive passions of our nature. They might have
the simplicity, but not the virtues, of Arcadia.... There were some old English customs of
an interesting nature which lingered in the parish. For example, the old habit of bowing to
the altar was retained by the rustics on entering church, and bowing respectfully to the clergyman
in his place. A copy of the Scriptures was in the vestry chained to the desk on which it lay,
and where it had evidently been since that mode of introducing the Bible was practised in the
time of Edward VI. The passing bell was always sounded on notice of the death of a parishioner,
and sounded at any hour, night or day, immediately on the event happening. One striking custom
prevailed at funerals. The coffin was borne through the village to the churchyard by six or
eight bearers of the same age and sex as the deceased. Thus young maidens in white carried
the remains of the girl with whom they had lately sported. Boys took their playfellow and companion
to the churchyard. The young married woman was borne by matrons; the men of middle age did
the same office for their contemporary.... The worship of the little church was, as may be
supposed, extremely simple, and yet even there innovation and refinement had appeared in the
musical department. The old men who used to execute the psalmody, with the clerk at their head,
had been superseded. A teacher of singing had been engaged, and a choir, consisting of maidens,
boys and men, executed various sacred pieces with the assistance of a bassoon and violin. I
recollect in the church a practice which would have shocked the strict rubricians of the present
day. Whenever banns of marriage were proclaimed, immediately after the words 'This is the first,
second, or third time of asking,' the old clerk shouted out, 'God speed them weel.' In nothing
was the primitive and simple character of the people more remarkable than in the social position
of the clergy amongst them. The livings were all small, so that there was no temptation for
ecclesiastics of birth and high position in society to come there. The clergy were in many
cases clergy only on Sundays, and for Sunday duty. The rest of the week they were like their
people; engaged in agriculture or horse-breeding, they lived with their servants, and were
scarcely raised above the position of farmers. To show the primitive manners of many clergymen,
I may mention the case of an usher in my school, who was also curate. He enjoyed the euphonious
name of Caleb Longbottom. I recollect his dialect--pure Yorkshire; his coat a black one only
on Sunday, as I suppose he was on week days wearing out his old blue coat which he had before
going into orders. Lord Macaulay has been charged that in describing the humble social condition
of the clergy in the reign of Charles II., he has greatly exaggerated their want of refinement
and knowledge of the world; but really, from my recollection of my friend Mr. Longbottom and
others at the time I speak of, in the reign of George III., I cannot think he has overdrawn
the picture. Suppose this incident at a table in our own time:--My uncle lived in what is called
in Yorkshire the Hall; and being principal proprietor in the parish, he was in fact the squire
or great man. The clergy always dined at the hall after evening service, and I recollect the
first day the new curate dined. The awkwardness and shyness of the poor man were striking,
even to the eyes of a thoughtless schoolboy. He summoned courage to call for beer, and, according
to the old custom, deemed it necessary to drink the health of all present before he put the
glass to his lips. He addressed first the old gentleman, then the vicar, then myself, and finally,
with equal solemnity, drank to the servants in attendance--the old butler and coachman, who
were waiting upon the company[1]."

I value these reminiscences of his Yorkshire school, written long after, because I think them
very curious; and they show how early Edward Ramsay had his eyes open to characteristic features
of the people.

Ramsay's grand-uncle, the old Sir Alexander Ramsay, died in 1806, neglecting to make the provision
which he had intended for his grand-nephew, but leaving his estates to his nephew, Edward's
father, who then gave up his sheriffship (in which he was succeeded by Adam Gillies), and being
a Whig and of Whig family, accepted a baronetcy from Mr. Fox, and made Fasque his home for
the short remainder of his life.

The future Dean was not fortunate in schools. On his father's succeeding to the family estates
he quitted Harlsey indeed, but only to move to Durham, which left no more pleasant memories
in his mind than the other, although there he learned to blow the flute, and indulge his strong
musical taste. He writes of Durham school that it had fallen off terribly, from the increasing
infirmities of the head master, and Ramsay was anxious to leave it, when that move came naturally
by the death of his father[2]. Writing in his journal some time afterwards, he says, "What
was I to do? I was determined to go into the Church, and must go to college. How was the intermediate
period to be spent?" His first private tutor was the Rev. J.H. Browne, at Kegworth in Leicestershire,
afterwards Archdeacon of Ely. "Here," says Edward, "I did learn something both of books and
of the world. Browne was a scholar, and my fellow-students were gentlemen and knew something
of life." He next lived for a time with Mr. Joynes, a clergyman, at Sandwich in Kent, and went
from thence, in October 1811, to Cambridge.

He entered as a pensioner at St. John's, and although professing to be a reading man, he was
not eminently satisfied with the effects of the society into which he fell upon his habits
and accomplishments. "Not," he says, "that I had not really good associates, but somehow it
seems not to have been the best and such as I might have had." Another defect was his not having
a skilful and effective private tutor at a time when he felt that he stood specially in need
of one. "I could not form my reading habits alone, and I had not sufficient help. I did enough,
however, to show I was not an ass. I got a scholarship. I was twice in goodish places in the
first class. I had a name for flute-playing;" and then, ending this retrospect, which he wrote
with some disgust, he tells how he left Cambridge in his third year, going out B.A. with no
contest for honours. His college vacations were spent either in London with college friends,
or with a reading party under Wilkinson, the tutor, at Redcar. In gathering up his recollections,
he says he saw a good deal of society: one summer was very musical; of another which he spent
at home he enumerates his occupations--"botany," "music," "Deeside." Through all, his study
was theology, but in "small doses" he says. His brother Marmaduke joined him on the Christmas
holiday of 1816, when they worked together at the cryptogamics, and then went up to Cambridge
together--Edward to renew his theological studies with the help of the formal lectures at the
University. He spent the remainder of that season at Bath with friends and relatives. He speaks
of the Bath society, its gaiety, theatricals, music--some rich clergymen giving good dinners,
and brother Marmaduke coming for his long vacation to a farm-house two miles from Bath, "where
we had some good botanical fun. Can it be that the finding a new plant put us in a state of
ecstasy? How we treasured up specimens! How we gloried in our collections! But it has all passed
away; no chord is touched." To some, who think of the Dean as the reverend, pious, grave, even
melancholy man, these youthful reminiscences may appear unnatural, even unworthy. I must own
that there breaks out now and then in his journal something which shows that he himself was
not satisfied with many of these juvenile memoranda, as if they showed unfitting occupation
and education of a young clergyman. But that was not their real nature. Those small studies
and accomplishments took the place in his early training which the cricket-match or the boat-race
now take in the school time of Young England. The Dean speaks somewhat contemptuously--"Here
I got a smattering of astronomy," and again of his studies of cryptogamics and botany; but
he nevertheless felt the full benefit of such accomplishments. His music, his passion for rural
and especially Highland scenery, the enjoyments of society, the love of seeing others happy,
the joining of happiness with goodness, made the Dean what he was in after life, and enabled
him to take that position amongst his countrymen which a purely theological upbringing would
not have done.

But now our young cleric was to put away childish things, and to take upon him the duty of
his high calling. He was ordained at Wells, and officiated for the first time as curate of
Rodden, near Frome, Somerset, on Christmas day 1816.

Rodden is a very small village, of one or two farms and some labourers' cottages, nestling
round the little church, with a few, very few, outlying houses or farms. It lies among meadows
on each side of the rivulet which runs through the village. One of the outlying houses is "Styles
Hill," inhabited by one family of the Sheppards, all of whom soon became dear friends of the
Dean. Another was the "Pear-tree" Cottage, an uninteresting red brick house, where Mr. Rogers
provided a residence for the young curate. The incumbent of the parish, when Ramsay went there,
was the Rev. John Methwen Rogers of Berkley, who was non-resident. The duties of Rodden were
too small to employ his whole time, and in the following year (1817) Ramsay became curate also
of Buckland Dinham, the rector of which was non-resident and lived at a distance, so that the
curate had the sole charge of the parish. In his work at Buckland, Ramsay took great delight,
and soon won the hearts of his people, although many of them were Wesleyan Methodists of the
old type[3]. But it was not only amongst the peasantry that Ramsay was beloved. All the upper
and middle classes in his own little parishes, and through the whole valley, regarded him with
strong esteem and affection, and amongst them were persons whose character, and even whose
little peculiarities of language, he caught and remembered. One of these, a retired Captain
Balne, although he failed in prevailing on the young clergyman to take a glass of grog, his
own favourite cure for all ailments, was pleased when the curate came to take a dish of tea
with him and his gentle wife. Once, when Ramsay was ill, the grief in the parish was universal;
but he used to say that the greatest proof of attachment was given by Captain Balne, who happened
to be enjoying his dinner when the news of his friend's illness reached him, upon which he
laid down his knife and fork, and declared he could not take another mouthful. Captain Balne
had a peculiar phraseology. One phrase, in particular, was, "If I may be allowed the language,"
which came readily on all occasions. If he was asked "How is Mrs. Balne to-day?" the Captain
would reply, "She is quite well, I thank you, Mr. Ramsay, if I may be allowed the language;"
or ask him, "Have you a good crop of apples this year?" "Pretty middling, sir, if I may be
allowed the language." The constant recurrence of the phrase struck Mr. Ramsay, who quoted
it long after in his letters to his Frome friends--"I am glad to say my congregation at St
John's continues good--if I may be allowed the language."

Buckland is a larger village than Rodden, containing nearly 500 inhabitants. The two places
are five miles apart. Buckland is on the brow and slope of a steep hill, the church being on
the summit, and the irregular street descending from it on the Frome side, with many cottages
scattered about among orchards and meadows. So the curate of Buckland, living at the Pear-tree
Cottage in Rodden, required a pony for locomotion, which he showed with some pride to his neighbours
on first buying it. It was an iron-gray, and a sedate clerical pony enough, to which he gave
the name of Rumplestiltskin, after one of Grimm's popular stories; and whenever he spoke of
him or to him, he gave him his name at full length. The country and some of the places round
Buckland are very interesting. On the west is one of the entrances to Vallis, a grassy valley
bordered by limestone rocks, and trees and copse, with a trout-stream winding through it. There,
when the labours of the day were done, the Sheppards and he would spend a summer afternoon
sketching and botanising, whilst tea was prepared at a neighbouring farm.

Vallis opened into several other vales, and on the heights above were the picturesque villages
of Elm and Skells, and the ruined nunnery and massive old castle, the old seat of Delameres,
renowned for a defence in the Cromwellian wars. Mr. Ramsay proposed in jest to fit up the castle
as a dwelling, and bring all his friends to live there. Another time he was for fitting it
up as a museum. It would make, he said, a splendid place for a hortus siccus--a "great ornament
to our ponds and ditches[4]." The writer of these trifles excuses herself for collecting them,
because she knew the value which is attached to the least of the sayings and doings of a departed
friend; but we are assured, that even in those Arcadian regions life was not always holiday.
There was some serious work. The curate took great pains on the future interests as well as
the characters of his little flock.

In one family he acted the part of the truest of friends--gently reproving the little ones
when they deserved it, and ready to amuse when it was the time for amusement--sometimes taking
them to Bath for the day, and making them very happy, bestowing at the same time great pains
on their instruction--sometimes practising music with them, and accompanying their sonatas
on his incomparable flute--recommending to the governess a higher style of music, leading them
on gradually to the works of Beethoven and Mozart. By and by he gave them instructions in architecture;
taught them, as he said, all that he had learned from Rickman. His teaching was minutely technical.
He would assemble his class in a little morning room, with books before them, and a case of
mathematical instruments, pens and pencils. His pupils wrote what he saw fit to dictate, and
he taught them how to use the compasses. Next came botany, which was not a new study to his
pupils. There his brothers assisted him. They made a joint hortus siccus under his instruction.
Edwin contributed many specimens from Scotland, and Marmaduke made a little collection of mosses.
But they had to thank the curate for yet higher and better instruction. His younger pupils
were not excluded from the most earnest conversations between him and Mr. Algar, Mr. John Sheppard,
and some friends of the neighbouring gentlemen and clergy. In these conversations books were
read and criticised, theological and other subjects, including some politics, were discussed.
Ramsay was quizzed for Whiggish tendencies. The mistress of the house usually joined and set
them right in politics, for she had been brought up in Plymouth during the French war, and
had learned the old-fashioned Tory doctrine, and to think any other politics sinful. But all
those high subjects of politics and religion were discussed with fitting respect; for that
society--young and old--had a deep sense of religion, and the parents encouraged the younger
members to visit and instruct the workmen and their families who were employed in the large
cloth manufactories of the Sheppards; so that it came to pass that every man, woman, and child
was taught or helped to teach others, for in those days very few of the working-people, at
least in that part of England, could read at all. A lending library was attached to the mills.
A large Sunday school was formed, chiefly for the children of the workpeople, and additional
services were undertaken by the curate--a second sermon on Sundays besides one on Thursday
evenings, where the families of the neighbourhood attended, and as many of the servants as
could be spared. There, be sure, was no big talk on the primary obligation of orthodoxy, no
attempts to proselytise. But all classes of that primitive people valued his preaching, and
farmers and their labourers, the workmen of the factories, as well as their masters, took advantage
of it. His brothers often visited him, and joined heartily in his pursuits whether gay or serious.
It was delightful to see the three brothers so happy in each other's society, and helping on
a worthy common object. Marmaduke, the Cambridge man, would talk astronomy, and William, the
sailor, afterwards Admiral Ramsay, brought down a fine telescope, and himself gave them their
first lesson in practical astronomy, handing over the instrument when he left to his brother
the curate, that he might continue the instruction.

During all these years of useful, cheerful, happy employment at Frome, Edward Ramsay never
forgot the land of his forefathers and of his own youth. He sometimes visited Bath and London
to hear Edward Irving preach, to see Kean act, to stare at old books and prints in the shop
windows, to revel in the beauties of Kew Gardens; but every summer he found time for a visit
to Scotland, and spent his holiday with boyish delight amongst the scenes and friends of his
childhood.

It was on one of those visits to Scotland, in the autumn of 1822, whilst Mr. Ramsay was spending
his holidays among his friends on Deeside, that the managers of St. Paul's Chapel, Aberdeen,
offered him the place of second minister to that congregation, along with Mr. Cordiner. He
was much gratified, and would gladly have accepted the appointment. He liked the place--his
native town; thought highly of the respectability of the congregation; but there was one objection,
which to him was insuperable. The congregation had for some time been Episcopal only in name,
and it went against Mr. Ramsay's conscience to minister in a church calling itself Episcopal,
but without the communion or discipline of a bishop. He explained to the managers his objection,
and thought for a time it might be overcome by a union with the Scotch Episcopal churches in
the diocese. He had yet to learn the strength, of the Scotch prejudice against bishops; perhaps
to learn that the more shadowy the grounds of dispute, so much the more keenly are ecclesiastical
squabbles fought. Worthy Bishop Skinner would have been glad to have Ramsay a fellow-labourer
in his city upon whatever conditions. Yet he could not contradict his younger friend's honest
and temperate adherence to his principles and to Episcopacy. The correspondence all round,
which I have before me, is quite decorous; but after Ramsay had stated his objection, and that
it was insuperable, the managers wrote to him, 1st October 1822, that "a unanimous election
would follow if he accepted the situation under the present establishment." It would have been
easy to divide the congregation, but this did not suit Ramsay's feelings or nature, and he
courteously bowed to the decision of the managers, and returned to Frome, where his income
from both curacies was £100 a year,--a poverty the more irksome to a man of culture and refined
tastes.

Not long after (still, I think in 1823), the Journal records--"Mrs. Forbes, my aunt, had just
come into her accession of fortune, and presented me with £5000. A man may live many days in
this world, and not meet the like gift in a like kindly spirit[5]."

Of the year 1823 the Journal remarks very severe winter. "Marmaduke and Edwin with me at the
Pear-tree[6]; a delightful tour in South Wales with the Sheppards and other friends most agreeable
and good-humoured,--botany, sketching, talk, and fun. Life has few things to offer more enjoyable
than such tours. I have found in them the happiest hours in my life." And then follows the
wail for so "many of them departed; so many dear good friends; all different, but all excellent!"

Marmaduke having gone as tutor to Lord Lansdowne's eldest son, Edward was more free to consider
an offer from Edinburgh, and ultimately accepted the curacy of St. George's in York Place,
under Mr. Shannon. He preached his two last sermons at Rodden and Buckland on Christmas day 1823.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Reminiscences (Second Series, 1861). Introduction.

[2] May 10, 1810.

[3] Some account of his dealings among the Methodists may be found in the Sunday Magazine,
January 1865, edited by the Rev. Dr. Guthrie. The paper is titled "Reminiscences of a West
of England Curacy."

[4] This was a favourite quotation of Ramsay's, who was amused with the remark of Withering's
or Woodward's botany, repeated in his letters for long after:--"The organ at St. John's gives
universal satisfaction--a great ornament to our ponds and ditches."

[5] Mrs. Forbes, the sister and aunt of so many Burnetts and Ramsays, lived the latter part
of her life at Banchory Lodge, in the middle of that "Deeside" country, where the future Dean
spent many of his happy holidays, and learned much of the peculiar ways of that peculiar people.
There were no two ladies in Scotland more esteemed and beloved than the Dean's aunts on both
sides--Mrs. Russell, his aunt and mine, living in widowhood at Blackhall, and Mrs. Forbes at
Banchory Lodge, three miles apart, on the opposite banks of Dee. Mrs. Forbes died 1st February
1838.

[6] His dwelling near Frome.

II.

The Dean was passionately fond of Deeside. Let me indulge myself in looking back upon that
district such as he knew it, such as I remember it sixty years ago.

The natural features of Deeside are not changed. The noble river pours down its brown flood
as of old, hurrying from its wooded rocky highlands. On the prettiest part of its bank stands
Crathes, the finest of Aberdeenshire castles, the immemorial seat of the Burnetts, where Edward
Ramsay, himself a Burnett, was received with all the love of kindred, as well as the hearty
respect for his sacred profession. I daresay Crathes was not to him quite what I remember it.
But we were of different professions and habits. I will say nothing of the chief sport of Dee,
its salmon-fishing. However fascinating, the rod is a silent companion, and wants the jovial
merriment, shout and halloo, that give life and cheerfulness to the sport of the hunter. My
recollection of Deeside is in its autumn decking, and shows me old Sir Robert and my lady,
two gentle daughters and four tall stalwart sons--they might have sat for a group of Osbaldistones
to the great painter Walter Scott. I will not describe the interior of the old house, partly
because it was changing, and every change appeared to me for the worse; but no one would forget
the old hall, where Kneller's picture of Bishop Burnett still looks down on his modern cousins
and their hospitality. It was a frank and cordial hospitality, of which the genial old bishop
would have approved. The viands were homely almost to affectation. Every day saw on that board
a noble joint of boiled beef, not to the exclusion of lighter kickshaws; but the beef was indispensable,
just as the bouilli still is in some provinces of France. Claret was there in plenty--too plentiful
perhaps; but surely the "braw drink" was well bestowed, for with it came the droll story, the
playful attack and ready retort, the cheerful laugh--always good humour. A dinner at Crathes
was what the then baronet, old Sir Robert, would call the "best of good company."

Another part of the house I well remember--the place, half gun-room, half servant's hall--where
we prepared for sport in the morning, and brought the day's bag home at night. Prominent figures
there were two brothers Stevenson, Willie and Jamie, known for twenty miles round as the "fox-hunters,"
known to us, after the southern sporting slang had been brought among us by our neighbour Captain
Barclay, as "Pad-the-hoof" and "Flash-the-muzzle[7]" The fox-hunting was on foot, but let no
mounted hunter sneer. The haunts of the game were continuous woods and bogs, hard to ride and
from which no fox could be forced to break. "Pad-the-hoof" looked no ignoble sportsman as he
cheered his great slow-hounds through the thicket, and his halloo rang from the wood of Trustach
to the craigs of Ashintillie. Both were armed, but "Flash" took less charge of the hounds than
seeing to death the fox, the enemy of all, including the roe, which recent plantations had
raised into an enemy. I must say nothing on foot or wing came amiss to Flash-the-muzzle's gun.
Hares and rabbits, not then the pest of the country, swelled our bag. We had a moderate number
of black game, and the fox-hunters were somewhat astonished to find that we of the gentry set
much store by woodcock, which bulked so little in the day's sport. The fox-hunter brothers
had the run of the servants' hall at Crathes, and they were said to have consumed fabulous
numbers of kitchen pokers, which required to be heated red-hot to give the jugs of ale of their
evening draught the right temperature and flavour. That was a free-living community. The gentlemen
of the house were too much gentlemen to stand upon their dignity, and all, from the baronet
downwards, had the thorough appreciation of Deeside humour. It was there that the Dean learned
his stories of "Boatie" and other worthies of the river-side. Boatie himself was Abernethy,
the ferryman of Dee below Blackhall; he hauled his boat across the river by a rope made fast
at both ends. Once, in a heavy water, the rope gave way, and Boatie in his little craft was
whirled down the raging river and got ashore with much difficulty. It was after this, when
boasting of his valiant exertions, that Mrs. Russell put him in mind of the gratitude he owed
to Providence for his escape, and was answered as the Dean himself tells us in his Reminiscences.
Another of the water-side worthies, "Saunders Paul," was nominally the keeper of the public-house
at Invercannie, where the water of Cannie falls into Dee. It was the alehouse of the country,
but frequented much more by the gentry than by the commons. It was there that Mr. Maule in
his young days, not yet Lord Panmure, led the riots and drank his claret, while Saunders capped
him glass for glass with whisky and kept the company in a roar with Deeside stories. Old Saunders--I
remember him like yesterday--was not a mere drunken sot or a Boniface of the hostelry. He had
lived a long lifetime among men who did not care to be toadied, and there was a freedom and
ready wit in the old man that pleased everybody who was worth pleasing. Above all, there was
the Deeside humour which made his stories popular, and brought them to the ear of our Dean.

That was the left side--the Crathes bank of Dee. Across the river was the somewhat dilapidated
fortalice of Tilquhillie, the seat of an ancient and decayed branch of the Douglases. The last
laird who dwelt there lived in the traditions of Deeside as own brother to the Laird of Ellangowan
in Scott's romance. Ramsay has put him well on canvas. Who does not remember his dying instructions
to his son and his grieve?--"Be ye aye stickin' in a tree, Johnny; it will be growin' when
ye are sleepin'!" while he cautions the grieve, "Now mind that black park; it never gied me
onything, ne'er gie onything to it."

In the days when the Dean knew that Water-side the fortalice was uninhabited, and I think not
habitable for gentlefolks; but down on the haugh below, and close to the river in a pretty
garden-cottage, dwelt the old Lady Tilquhillie, with her son the sheriff of the county, George
Douglas, whom a few Edinburgh men may yet remember as the man of wit and pleasure about town,
the beau of the Parliament House--at home a kind hospitable gentleman, looking down a little
upon the rough humours that pleased his neighbours. The old lady--I think she was a Dutch woman,
or from the Cape of Good Hope--and her old servant, Sandy M'Canch, furnished the Dean with
many a bit of Deeside life and humour; and are they not written in the Reminiscences!

Higher up the river were two houses where the Dean was much beloved--Banchory Lodge, his uncle
General Burnett's, where also lived his dear aunt, the widowed Mrs. Forbes; and Blackhall,
where, in the time I have in my mind, lived his aunt, Mrs. Russell, the widow of my uncle Francis
Russell, a woman of many sorrows, but whose sweet voice and silver laugh brought joy into the
house even amidst sickness and sorrow[8]. She had not the Deeside language, but she and her
sister Lady Ramsay, Yorkshire women, and educated in the city of York, helped to give the Dean
that curious northern English talk which he mixed pleasantly with the language of Angus and
Mearns that he loved so well; and he inherited from the Bannermans the sweet voice, so valuable
an inheritance to a preacher.

I have gone over less than a dozen miles of the valley of the Dee, which was the Dean's Deeside.
I think the manners and popular thought, as well as the language of that little district, were
peculiar, and fitted to catch the attention of an eager student of human nature and character.
Deeside, in its wider acceptance, of course includes the great city at its mouth, and the picturesque
mountains of Mar near the source of the river, where the Queen has now set her mark of favour
on the land. I beg to distinguish Deeside--the Dean's Deeside--lying between these. The city
of Aberdeen, with its trade and manufacture and wealth, with its University and schools, and
some tradition of the antique metropolis, has established, as she had good right, habits and
language of her own, not to be mistaken, but almost confined to her own walls. On the other
hand, the mountains of Mar, where lie the springs of the Dee, where tower Lochnagar and Benmacdhui,
are inhabited by a race of shepherds and hunters, speaking a different language, differing
in manners from the Dean's friends, who dwelt from the Hill of Fair to Ashintillie, where hardly
a Gaelic name occurs among the peasantry.

The little cluster of mansions which I have mentioned lies, I think, wholly within the parish
of Banchory-Ternan. Following the river down from that parish, the next place of any importance
is the old manor-house of Durris, some half-dozen miles lower, and on the right bank of the
river. It is a place of some interest to lawyers for having given rise to one of the leading
cases on the law of entail, which settled points that had formerly been doubtful, all in favour
of the strict entail. The victim in that case, ejected by the heir of entail, was John Innes,
who had sold his property in Moray to invest the produce in the great barony of Durris. The
new tenant, believing himself almost proprietor, built a comfortable house under the walls
of the old castle, and in that house was born the writer of these notes. I do not feel myself
severed by any disgusts from the country of my youth where I spent my best years, or at least
the years of most enjoyment. It was then a wild moor, with some natural beauty, a picturesque
den leading from the house to the noble river, wooded with native birch and scrubby oak, with
some tall larches and magnificent horse-chestnuts, and even a few immemorial Spanish chestnuts
planted by the old Peterboroughs, now all gone. Along that river bank were some of the broadest
haughs with which I am acquainted, and some of the best salmon streams, then woods and sheep
pastures and a dozen miles of heather hills--up to Cairn-monearn and Kerloach--giving the best
grouse-shooting in the country. It is in truth a charming water-side even in the eyes of a
critical old man, or of a tourist in search of the picturesque; but for a boy who lived there,
shot, and fished there, while all the houses round were the dwellings of cousins and friends,
while game was not yet let for hire, it was a place to win that boy's heart, and I loved it
very heartily. We were the nearest neighbours on one side of that cluster of residences of
the Burnetts and Douglases and Russells which I have tried to describe. We were all very good
friends, and thus the Dean and I were early acquainted.

I have said little of the Dean's ancestors, merely named the Burnetts and Bannermans. Indeed
I would guard against loading my memoir of the Dean with anything like mere pedigree. I take
no interest in his ancestry, except in so far as they may have given a character--so far as
he may have inherited his personal qualities from them. I will not dwell then upon Alexander
de Burnard, who had his charter from Robert the Bruce of the Deeside lands which his descendants
still hold, nor even on the first Lairds of Leys. When the Reformation blazed over Scotland,
the Baron of Leys and his kindred favoured and led the party that supported the new faith;
but, even in that iconoclastic age, two of them are found protesting against the destruction
of religious places at Aberdeen. One, Gilbert Burnett (he was grand-uncle of the Bishop of
Sarum), enjoyed considerable reputation abroad for certain philosophical writings. He was Professor
of Philosophy, first at Basle and afterwards at Montauban, and a general synod of the French
Protestants desired that his works should be printed at the expense of the synod. These Dissertationes
Ethicæ were accordingly published at Leyden in 1649; but his death prevented his other writings
from being published. Two brothers of the same generation, Thomas and Duncan, settled in England
as physicians, and seem to have been men of literary eminence. Pedigrees of both are to be
found in the Herald's Visitations of Essex and Norfolk. Duncan, Thomas, and Gilbert, are all
noticed by Sir Thomas Middleton among the "Learned Men and Writers of Aberdeen;" and Duncan
is noted as a holy, good, and learned man. In the stirring times of the Covenants, Sir Thomas
Burnett of Leys, Baronet, though an adherent of the Huntlys, embraced the Covenant from conscientious
motives against his political instincts and associations. And ever afterwards we find him firm
in the principles of the Covenant, yet advising peaceful and moderate counsels; and when Montrose,
after his conversion to the royal cause, passed through Aberdeenshire, harrying the lands of
the leading Covenanters, he supped one day at Crathes, excepted and protected Sir Thomas Burnett
and his son-in-law, Sir William Forbes of Monymusk, in the general denunciation of the Puritans.
We find Sir Thomas repeatedly a commissioner for visiting the University of Aberdeen, and in
his later years he endowed three bursaries at King's College, his own alma mater. Jamesone
has painted him with a thoughtful and refined, but earnest and manly face. The baronet's brother,
James Burnett of Craigmyle, was of the same character. No less earnest and staunch than his
brother in his adherence to his principles--he ever figures as a peace-maker and enemy of bloodshed.
He is described by the parson of Rothiemay, an unsuspected testimony, as a "gentleman of great
wisdom, and one who favoured the King though he dwelt among the Covenanters, and was loved
and respected by all." Is it not plain that the temperance and moderation descended in the
blood of the Burnetts?

Thomas Burnett of Kemnay, grandson of Craigmyle, is known in a sphere where few Scotsmen had
entered. He was a courtier of that remarkable little court of the Electress Sophia of Hanover,
where he became the friend of the philosopher Leibnitz, correspondent of the poet Dryden, and
his letters are full of curious gossip on the most various subjects--theology, philosophy,
literature, including poetry and the small talk of the day. He was greatly employed and trusted
by the Electress Sophia. His son George was noted as an agriculturist, and his grandson, Alexander
Burnett of Kemnay (by a daughter of Sir Alexander Burnett of Leys), was long British Secretary
of embassy at Berlin, and attended Frederick the Great in the campaigns of the Seven Years'
War; remaining at the Prussian Court as Chargé d'Affaires after Sir Andrew Mitchell's death.

James, third son of Craigmyle the Covenanter, married a daughter of the family of Irvine of
Monboddo, a scion of the house of Drum, and having so acquired that barony, he transmitted
it to his descendants, of whom the most famous was his great-grandson, James Burnett, Lord
Monboddo, a Judge of the Court of Session, an eminent lawyer, and a man of rare accomplishments,
with some whimsical peculiarities. In a treatise on the origin and progress of language, he
was the first seriously to assert the descent of mankind from the monkey, and that the human
race were originally furnished with tails! That and a hundred other whimsies were mixed up
with a great deal of learning then very rare, and with a philosophy that dealt in free and
daring speculation, of which the world was not yet worthy.

The first baronet of Leys, besides his brother James of Craigmyle, had yet another brother,
Robert Burnett of Crimond, an eminent advocate, very learned, and of high moral and religious
principle. Though his wife was a sister of Johnstone of Warriston, he himself, unlike his two
brothers, was an opponent of the Covenant, for which he went into exile until the Restoration,
when he was made a Judge of the Court of Session as Lord Crimond. He had three sons by the
Warriston lady. His eldest, Sir Thomas Burnett, was physician to royalty from Charles II to
Queen Anne. The third was Gilbert, Bishop of Salisbury, of whom it is not my intention to give
any detailed account. His brilliant talents and great influence made him many friends, and
even more enemies. History is beginning to do justice to his character without concealing his
weaknesses. He seems to have been more honest than was the fashion in his time.

Such is the little gathering of family history, for the accuracy of which I am chiefly indebted
to my kind friend the Lord Lyon--himself a Burnett. Perhaps I should apologise for saying even
the little I have said of the Dean's pedigree; but while I press into my service the country
of his birth and breeding, and the local peculiarities amongst which his life was spent, as
possibly having some influence on his character, I could not resist the wish to show another
element, drawn from his ancestry, that went to the forming of that character. Was not our Dean
a worthy representative of Puritan leaders who refused to go into the violence of the Covenant--of
the Bishop of unreproached life, who read the Thirty-nine Articles with an unconcealed desire
to include conscientious Dissenters--of many peaceful gentlemen on the banks of the Dee, who
mixed a happy playful humour with a catholic reverence for that Christianity which he could
recognise in other sects, though preferring his own?

FOOTNOTES:

[7] The present generation of Burnetts think that those slang names were invented by Barclay,
but I knew him well, and venture to doubt his humorous powers. In the midst of "sporting" and
violent excitement he was serious in talk, as became the descendant of the old Quakers.

[8] Mrs. Russell had lost her two sons by a strange fatality--both were drowned, the elder,
Lockhart, while skating at Bath, about 1805-6, James, the younger, in crossing the river Dee
in a boat rowed by himself in 1827.

III.

Edward Ramsay left Somersetshire amidst the general regrets of his parishioners and neighbours,
and entered on his Edinburgh career 1st January 1824. The journal which I am now using has
not hitherto spoken much of the differing opinions of his brother clergymen, although there
is sometimes a clergyman noted as "very low," and elsewhere, one branded as a "concealed Papist."
But in Edinburgh--it is vain to conceal it--every profession must be broken into parties. He
found Edinburgh, or rather I should say the Episcopal Church in Edinburgh, then theologically
divided between the Evangelicals, headed by the Rev. Edward Craig and the old-fashioned Churchmen,
the rather moral school, of which Mr. Alison was the distinguished ornament. Mr. Ramsay went
to St. George's Chapel, York Place, as Mr. Shannon's curate, in the beginning of 1824, and
remained doing that duty for two and a half years. He then went to St. Paul's, Carrubber's
Close, where he laboured for a year.

In 1825 Ramsay "toiled on" with sermons and wrote a series on the Articles. "A great improvement,"
he says, "must have taken place in Edinburgh, for unquestionably the sermons I then got credit
for we should all think little of now[9]." In 1826 he left Mr. Shannon's chapel, and took the
single charge of the quaint old chapel of St. Paul's, Carrubber's Close. Amongst the events
recorded of the year was the acquaintance he made by officiating at the funeral of Lady Scott,
Sir Walter's wife. In 1827 he mentions a change, "a considerable move to me, which, under God,
has been a good one." He closed with an offer of the curacy of St. John's, under Bishop Sandford,
when he was thirty-seven years of age. In spring he was ill, and went to visit his old place
and friends in Somerset.--"Interesting, very: received at my old curacy of Buckland with much
joy, and on the whole enjoyed my visit." At Whitsunday 1827 he came home to enter on St. John's
with Bishop Sandford, being thus half of 1827 in Carrubber's Close and half in St. John's.
I was in Edinburgh then, and can well remember what general favour accompanied Mr. Ramsay in
church and society. Perhaps he was not prepared for the vehemence of church dissensions among
us. I do not think there was at that time so bitter war between churchmen of the same profession
in England, but the Episcopal Church, of whatever section, had made great progress then in
Scotland. Its fine liturgy, and more decorous ceremonial, had attracted some. Many of the heads
of country families round Edinburgh have been educated in England, and many of them have married
in England--both circumstances tending to keep up their attachment to the Episcopal Church;
and in their houses the scholarly, accomplished, agreeable clergyman of the Episcopal Church
was a welcome guest, as well as an adviser and influential friend.

In summer of 1827 the journal tells us his brother Marmaduke paid him a visit. "We read some
Italian--I got a notion of Dante."

At the commencement of 1829 he enters in his journal--"This was a most important year indeed,
the year of my marriage; and what event has been to me so joyful, so full of interesting recollections?"
He tells that in the summer a visitor came to Scotland--a friend of Lady Dalhousie, and recommended
by her to Lady Robert Kerr, at whose house they met. The lady was Isabella Cochrane, of the
well-known Canadian family; writing in 1844 he says--"Fifteen years of close acquaintance with
that lady have taught me the best commentary upon the Scripture declaration that a 'virtuous
woman is a crown to her husband.' I need not say more than that I believe I owe mainly to her
(under Providence) my comfort, success and position here. But let this suffice. None but myself
can know my full obligations." Next year begins--"As 1829 gave me a wife, 1830 gave me a church,
for on the 14th January Bishop Sandford died, and the whole charge was offered to me, which
I undertook for three years without a curate--i.e. without a man-curate, for a most effective
assistant I had in dearest Isabella, who wrote to my dictation many a weary hour."

Except a little parcel of letters touching the negotiation with Bishop Skinner, and the Aberdeen
congregation in 1822, I find no letters of Ramsay till he wrote to one of the dear old friends
at Frome announcing a visit with his wife.

     Mr. RAMSAY to Miss STUART SHEPPARD, Fromefield, Frome,
     Somerset.

     7 Albany Court, London, 9th June [1831].

     My dear Stuart, I have been in such a whirl and such a
     turmoil since I came here that I have hardly had time to
     collect my scattered thoughts to write you a line. I have
     seen much and heard much, but shall not attempt to give you
     any account now, as I hope (please God) we shall meet ere
     long. Mrs. Ramsay's brother-in-law, the Bishop of Nova
     Scotia, is here--he preached the annual sermon for the
     anniversary meeting of the Charity Children in St. Paul's. I
     went as his chaplain, but of this more hereafter. He has been
     very urgent upon us to protract our stay here through all
     next week, but I have resisted his importunities, as I am
     really desirous of taking as much time as I can at Frome. We
     accordingly fix Tuesday for leaving London. We stay that day
     at Windsor with a friend, come to Winchester, Romsey,
     Salisbury, on Wednesday, and on Thursday the 16th, I hope to
     see you all in health and comfort. Dear Stuart, I shall be
     happy, really happy, to be amongst you once more. It is to me
     like coming home. Do not wait dinner or make any
     arrangements, because our hour of arrival is uncertain. We
     may be detained till the evening seeing sights. Mrs. E.B.R.
     eats nothing (literally), and I daresay your common dinner
     may furnish me with a meal. Mrs. Ramsay desires kindest
     love; she is not looking well, and I hope, after the racket
     here, she will improve upon Frome quiet. God bless you.--Your
     affectionate

     E.B.R.

     Marked--"First visit to F.F. with wife, June 9,1831."

     Mr. RAMSAY to Miss STUART SHEPPARD, Fromefield.

     Woburn, Friday night, 1st July [1831].

     We are sure that our very dear friends at Fromefield will be
     interested in hearing of our progress and welfare, and as we
     have a few extra minutes this morning, we are determined to
     devote them to a party now living in the hearts of all the
     wanderers with whom they so lately and so grievously parted:
     the weather even sympathised on Tuesday evening, and all
     the comfort we had was in talking over individually the whole
     Fromefield concern. My brother, who is slow in making
     friends, and shy of strangers, softened into tender
     friendship under the influence of such kindness, and vows
     that if he had such friends he would travel annually from
     Edinburgh to see them. He has put one sprig of verbena from
     Stuart in one pocket, another sprig from Jane in another
     pocket, and a piece of painted glass from Elizabeth in
     another pocket. How lucky it is that his dress should be so
     abundantly supplied with the accommodation of so many
     receptacles for reminiscences! Our next grief after leaving
     you was the not seeing Cousin John! We were sadly
     disappointed. We did not get into Clifton till near ten; the
     rain would prevent his coming to meet us, and the next
     morning we very provokingly missed each other, though Mr.
     Ramsay consoled himself with writing a note. How much I hope
     and trust that we are all to meet next year! We were
     delighted with our drive from Chepstow to Ross--the Wye
     scenery is exquisitely beautiful; we exhausted ourselves and
     our epithets in exclamations, and the day seemed made for the
     magnificent view from the Wynd Cliff, and then we came to
     Tintern Abbey! How often we wished for our Chedder party--how
     often we talked over the pleasure we would have in admiring
     all this beauty with them, and how often, like spoiled
     children, we wondered why all this enjoyment should not have
     accompanied us to Monmouth! but good-night, my very dear
     friends--I shall leave the letter in better hands for
     finishing, I am so sleepy!!

     [Mr. Ramsay]--We have seen many things of which the ingenious
     and very learned Dr. Woodward would say that they were "great
     ornaments to our ponds and ditches." But of this enough, and
     more than enough. Allow me to take this opportunity of
     expressing my satisfaction at finding how completely Mrs.
     E.B.R enters into the friendship which has so long existed
     between us, and at seeing how fully prepared she is to
     appreciate your kindness to myself and her; in short, to find
     that she loves you all now, as if she had known you as long
     as I have. May we never lose sight of these feelings! We saw
     Oxford to-day--a good thing, but in detail not equal to
     Cambridge--in general effect far superior. Gloster pleased
     me: the tower and cloisters surpassingly fine. People do not
     roar enough about the steeple of St. Mary's, Oxford--it is
     the finest in England, superior I think to that of
     Salisbury. Are you aware that there is a modern church at
     Oxford in the pure Norman style? My visit to Frome has given
     me (except in parting) unmixed satisfaction. I cannot say how
     much I have been gratified, and with what pleasure I look
     forward to a renewal. I must to bed, my eyes cannot discern
     the place to write in, and I am sleepy. Adieu, dearest
     friends, one and all at the Field of Frome, the Hill of
     Styles, the cottage of Keyford, etc. I rejoice to think that
     my good friend Kay is safe. Good-night! Woburn looks
     well--"a great ornament," etc.

     Marked by Mrs. Clerk--"Written on their way from F.F.--first
     visit."

     Mr. RAMSAY to Miss BYARD, Fromefield, Frome, Somerset.

     Edinburgh, Dec. 17, 1831,

     My dearest Friend, They have told me that you are not well,
     and neither time nor distance can take away the feeling of
     regard and friendship with which I sympathise with all that
     occurs to you. I confess myself that I was some time since
     disposed to look on all things around me with an anxious
     aspect; but I am beginning to see in all events but a part
     of that dispensation which is so gloriously distinguished as
     the work of love, and I think that public calamity or
     private sorrow, sickness, pain, weariness and weakness, may
     all be translated into the same language, and may be arranged
     as synonyms of the same word. Yes! piety, goodness, the
     favour and approbation of God, are all marked out by sorrow
     and infirmity here. Why else did the blessed Jesus tabernacle
     here below--a man of sorrows? and why else was he acquainted
     with grief? It might make a Christian almost drink his cup of
     sickness and pain with greediness when he remembers that he
     is tasting the same cup as that of which his Lord drank, and
     he might hail with rapture the outstretched arm of death and
     suffering as about to place on his head the diadem of eternal
     glory. I am not to flatter you--you need it not, you ask it
     not; but, my friend, you must feel and know that you have
     been walking with God, walking humbly, doing good, neither
     trusting to false presumptions nor to your own merits. Christ
     has been your master, to Him you have looked, and, blessed
     be God! He will never, never forsake those who trust to
     Him,--those who are good to others for his sake,--those who
     seek redemption through Him. Where, O ye years that are past,
     have you gone? You have carried to the throne of grace many
     an act of contrition, many a devout prayer, many a good deed,
     many an offering of faith, from the friend to whom I now
     write. Bring back, ye moments that are to come and which
     shall be granted to her in this world, rich consolations,
     promises of pardon, assurances of favour, all spiritual
     blessings! Dear Miss Byard, may all these be yours in full
     abundance. May God the Father bless you, through the Eternal
     Spirit, for Christ's sake! This is the sincere and earnest
     prayer of your affectionate and faithful friend, E.B.R.

     In this I am joined by Isabella.

     Marked--"It arrived just after her death."

In his journal Mr. Ramsay speaks of Bishop Sandford with a very grateful recollection. To him
he owed his preferment, and a "more agreeable charge could not well be had." He characterises
him as a man of elegant mind and accurate scholarship, of deep piety and sincere faith. I think
it is with some regret that he adds, the "state of the Church is much changed since his episcopate."

His dear brother Marmaduke died in the summer of 1831, and the Dean, who is no exaggerator
of his feelings, remarks--"This is one of the sorrows for which language is inadequate. Such
a mind, such taste, abilities, and accomplishments!" Edward Ramsay felt that nothing could
make up for the loss of his brother, but he had comfort in thinking how much his brother's
mind had been wakened to religious inquiries. His simple notes in his journal are sometimes
worth preserving. "July 6, 1833, was the finest day I ever remember." He passed it in the Highlands
with Professor Forbes, Skenes, and other delightful friends. On the 28th he left for the Duke
of Sutherland's funeral; afterwards he repaired to Leamington and Dr. Jephson, whose skill
he soon found reason to admire. On leaving Leamington he thanks God that he has gained in health,
and learnt also wisdom in regard to the "management of myself, and certainly in diet." It is
not necessary to record the little tours with his wife, which now happened almost every season,
either to Deeside or the Highlands or his old haunts in Somerset. On July 2, 1836, I find it
recorded that he went with a party to hear Dr. Chalmers at the Dean Church, and returned all
in great delight. He made a long journey that year to hear the great organ at Birmingham, and
came home by many cathedrals, and yet "glad to get home."

In 1838 he notes, after a Highland journey, the "Synod was this year for altering the canons,"
He notes a "white-stone visit to the Stranges, Ross-end Castle, with the Bells. Alas! how many
things and people are gone."

In 1839 "Lady Dalhousie, my admired friend, came to stay with us. She came January 19, and
on the 22d died in the drawing-room in an instant! It was an awful visitation, and never to
be forgotten."

The following letter, written immediately after the calamity, is from the Marquis of Dalhousie,
from various circumstances an object of great affection to the Dean, who consented to take
charge of his daughters when he went as Governor-General to India, bestowing on them the care
and anxious watchfulness which the young ladies returned with hearty affection:--

     The MARQUIS OF DALHOUSIE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Dalhousie Castle, 25th January 1839.

     My dear Mr. Ramsay--I have sent John in, partly because I am
     anxious that you should let me know how Mrs. Ramsay is
     to-day, and partly because I cannot rest till another evening
     without endeavouring to express to you some portion of the
     very, very deep gratitude which I feel for all your
     kindness--for the kindness of your every act and word, and--I
     am just as confident--of your every thought towards us all in
     this sad time. God knows how truly I feel it: and with that
     one expression I stop; for it makes me sick to think how slow
     and how coldly words come to clothe the feeling which I wish
     to convey to you. Believe only this, that to my own dying day
     I never can forget your goodness. Believe this too--that
     since it has pleased Almighty God that my poor mother's eyes
     should not he closed under my roof, and by my hand, I would
     not have wished any other place for her departure than among
     friends so kindly, loving, and so well loved.

     God bless you and repay it to you, prays your ever grateful
     and affectionate friend, DALHOUSIE.

     Rev. E. B. Ramsay.

February 27, 1839.--"My uncle General Burnett died; another limb of the older generation gone;
a good and kind man; a man of the world, and not a clever one. Latterly he showed a considerable
desire to know more about religion. Went with J. Sandilands to be present at the formation
of a branch of the Church Society at Glasgow--made a regular speech!" On September 4th he writes--"The
first day of meeting of the general committee for business of the Scottish Episcopal Church
Society. I gave a large dinner. Much have I worked for this society, and done better things
than give dinners. By the by William Ramsay [his brother the admiral] made a capital speech."
On March 5, 1841, it is noted, Bishop Walker died--"a good man. His mind cast in a limited
mould of strong prejudices; but a fair man, strictly honest in all his ways. He was not fitted
to unravel difficulties in his episcopate, and scarcely suited to these times. He had been
a furious opponent of the old evangelicals. A constant and kind friend to me. May his memory
be honoured. Bishop Terrot elected bishop. I am very grateful to think that in all this business
I can look with satisfaction upon everything that has been done by me."

From this time Mr. Ramsay's thoughts were very much taken up with the Episcopal Church Society,
and he records in his journal most of its meetings, and the English friends who came across
the Borders to help them. He mentions also a Scotch Presbyterian churchman who became convinced
of the apostolical authority of episcopacy--"an excellent man." Then a visit of Mr. ----, "an
accomplished and able man, somewhat strong of the popish leaven." That was in 1842, and on
the margin is written--"Gone over to the Church of Rome, 1845." He mentions also the "stupid
business at Portobello and squabbles," and his going down to make peace. On September 4th we
have some things which seemed important at their time--the Queen's visit to Scotland. He says,
"It was a stirring subject for old Scotland." "This day, 4th Sept., I read prayers and preached
before her Majesty, and also dined and sat near Prince Albert and the Queen. In the evening
presented to the Queen and Prince Albert, and introduced to Sir Robert Peel." Then comes the
cry--"All vanity of vanities!" At the end of this month the Bishop of London--"very agreeable"--was
in Edinburgh, and the Dean accompanied him to Glenalmond, to see the proposed site for Trinity
College. In 1843 he mentions the death of a friend, who, he feared, died an infidel: "However,
I have no wish to proclaim his errors. To me he was ever kind and considerate. Let us leave
judgment to Him who cannot err." In June of that year he paid a visit to England, spent Sunday
at Leeds, and was much interested with Dr. Hook and his church. "I have considerable dubitation
as to the expediency of making the services of our parish churches choral." He went on to London
and Oxford, where it was long vacation, but he met with great kindness from the heads of University
College and Exeter. "Magdalene is faultless."

After mentioning some visitors in March 1844, he writes--"Dickens's Christmas Carol really
a treat, a thoroughly wholesome book." On the 8th April he was present at the lunch given to
the children of the Episcopal poor in the Old Town. "This, I trust, is the commencement of
a scheme to bring some actually poor into our church. I made a speech, and, to my astonishment,
rather a good one." After a pretty long tour in the south of England he comes home in August
1844, and notes a letter from the Bishop of London, containing the offer of the Bishopric of
New Brunswick, in a handsome and gratifying manner. "I think I was right to refuse. May God
forgive me if it was an improper shrinking from duty." October 14, 1844: "I have now brought
up this record of my life's transactions to the present time, and my purpose is, in future
journalising, to take the leading points, to notice subjects only, painful, joyful, or difficult.
All my thoughts since the offer of the New Brunswick mitre have confirmed the correctness of
my judgment." October 17, 1844: "I am trying to repeat the experiment of last week, and write
my sermon over again. I see clearly that in such work we cannot take too much pains: dinner
at Lord Medwyn's to-day--very pleasant--rather an exception this to dinners: how dull the routine!
October 22: succeeded in my resolution of rewriting the whole of my sermon, and found the advantage;
in fact, nothing in the way of public speaking can be done without a thorough preparation.
How high parties are running! It has a sad effect on my mind; but my refuge must be in keeping
off controversy and adhering to edifying and practical subjects." In the same month he records
the death of a dear friend, whom he visited on his deathbed. "Nothing," he says, "could be
more satisfactory than his state of mind;" the Dean lost a kind Christian, attached and delightful
friend. "I was glad to be able to answer his scruples and fears about being an object of Christ's
mercy and pardon." December 11, 1844, he lost his mother--"simple-minded," he says, "as a child.
Oh! what a break of the family circle! It seems as if the last link which bound us together
were broken, and a point vanished round which we could always rally. I went with Lauderdale
to see the poor remains, so attenuated, and yet the countenance like itself, still beautiful,
and fine features." The funeral made the Dean very sad. She was followed to the grave by two
sons, a son-in-law, two grandsons and distant cousins. Mr. Alison read the service, and she
was buried beside her old friend of fifty years--poor Mrs. Macdonald.

1844: "Christmas day morning, Communion 78, in all 404; the church so full. I preached an old
but a good sermon." He has a Christmas dinner of a few friends, but not much Christmas spirit,
he says. In 1845, January 12, the journal notices--"I preached my liturgy sermon, and apparently
with much success." Some of his congregation had spoken of it as worthy to be printed. He saw
a good deal of company in his own house, whom I do not think it necessary to particularise,
though they were generally of distinction for talent or rank, or both together. He heard C.
Kemble read Henry VIII., which "I did much enjoy. Will. Shakspeare when most known is most
admired." On 19th January he preached a sermon, but his note upon it is not like the last.
"I liked it, but it did not seem to take as I had expected. Have been much meditating this
week on many matters, Church especially: find myself unsettled, I fear, but I think I have
the remedy, which is to keep my attention fixed rather on practical than on speculative points.
We cannot agree on the one; on the other we may, and good men do." March 2, 1845: "I confess
that the Romanising tendencies so openly avowed in the Church of England alarm me. The question
occurs, Is not this a necessary, or at least a natural tendency of High Churchism?" Speaking
of meetings of his Synod, he says "it is wretched work, which ended, indeed, in doing nothing."
One member had spoken with much bitterness, which he says, "thank God, I do not feel." 3d April
1845: "We are in a nice mess about this Old Town business. Two different communion offices
in one day in the same chapel. Is it possible that this could ever have been contemplated by
the canon? I do fear the extreme and Romanising party, and they hurt us here. The Scotch office
is supposed to identify us with them, and certainly the comments upon it make it speak a language
very different from the English."

June 19.--"Left home in the 'Engineer' coach at seven, travelled through to London without
stop, and arrived there at one o'clock: wonderful the shortening of this journey; went with
a party to Handel's Athalia at Exeter Hall; tired, fagged, and sleepy as I was, I yet felt
deeply the power of the mighty master in this his mighty work. Yes, Handel is the greatest
musician the world ever saw."

July 18, 1845.--"Returned to London: did little more there: arrived in Edinburgh for Mr. Sandiland's
marriage, a great stretch of friendship in me, for it has discomposed all our summer plans."
On 15th August there is an entry too characteristic to be omitted:--"Have been thinking a great
deal about the state of matters at present, and the sort of demeanour I should exhibit to the
world. I should be very cautious--hardly give an opinion if conflicting statements, and certainly
not gossip about them--certainly not speak harshly or severely of any. Keep my own course,
work hard, and endeavour to conciliate; rather lean to high than low side." November 10, 1845:
"at a meeting to hear Dr. Simpson, Mr. Macfarlane, and Norman Macleod give an account of their
mission to North America: interesting. Macleod a real clever fellow."

26th November 1845.--"The consecration of Dalkeith Chapel: we went out and stayed the day;
all good and well managed: Sermon preached by Rev. E. B. R: approved: three bishops, twenty
clergy. It is really a fine thing for a man to have done; a beautiful chapel; hope it won't
be extreme."

Dec. 2.--"Warden to College appointed; looks like business!"

Dec. 7.--"Heard astonishing news--William appointed to the 'Terrible, the largest steam man-of-war
in the service--in the world."

Dec. 14, 1845.--"Sermon on Christ the True Light. Collection for Scottish Episcopal Church
Society, £151."

15th March 1846.--"Sermon, 'Am I your enemy because I tell you the truth?' Here a sad blank,
for I have been very ill, and out of chapel two Sundays, and could not go to confirmation,
and all sorts of horrors. I have communed a good deal with myself, and I have made up my mind
to a conduct and demeanour in Church matters almost neutral. I positively will not again mix
myself up in any way with party, or even take part. I will confine myself to St. John's and
its duties. This is my line--hear what every one has to say, and keep a quiet, conciliatory,
and even tenor. It is more striking the more I think of the different way in which different
minds are affected by religious truth." ...

April 16.--"Synod meeting and Society. I took the moderate and conciliatory side. Did right
this time."

April 29.--"Preached the Casuistry sermon. Mrs. R. made it A 20."

June 1.--"Busy preparing for journey;" he leaves home for his summer holiday "with rather less
spirit and expectation of enjoyment than usual."

Mr. Ramsay was appointed Dean of the Diocese of Edinburgh by Bishop Terrot in 1846, after having
previously declined, as we saw, the dignity of the Bishopric of New Brunswick, offered him
by Sir Robert Peel. He afterwards refused the Bishopric of Glasgow in 1847, and the Coadjutor-Bishopric
of Edinburgh in 1862.

And now is the beginning of constantly recurring complaints of depression--low spirits, a "cloud
upon my spirits; headache, even pain and violent pain." He was disappointed at not getting
to see the "Terrible;" was low and depressed. "Went to Bath. Delighted with Torquay; interested
at Exeter; the service there the very best. Is cathedral service more than a solemn concert?"
Then he went by Beaminster to see his nephew Alexander and his family. He stayed a short time
at Crewkerne with his niece Mrs. Sparks. "Church a fine one: To Frome: This visit full of interest.
How kind and good! The only drawback is parting. We spent a week at Frome, and did enjoy it
much. Much kindness, heartiness I should say, intelligence, and real goodness. Changes I found,
and saw how time had told on many a face and frame. My dear companion was much pleased and
interested in our visit.... July 16.--Left Frome, and sorrowed at parting. Saw Sydney Herbert's
gorgeous church at Wilton. Too much! With the exterior of Salisbury not at all disappointed;
with the interior a little. Arrived at Farnborough by eight o'clock, and a most cordial welcome
we had from all the inmates of its pretty rectory. Went back to London on Friday, and returned
to Farnborough Saturday, and spent Sunday. July 19.--Was glad for Isabella to have an opportunity
of seeing a Sunday in a country place in England. I preached twice, and we were interested.
Aug. 4.--Came to York. Glorious! Chapter-house restored by Mr. Bell."

January 1, 1851.--"Having preached on Sunday last regarding improvement and good resolutions,
I would now do the same for myself. I have made some resolutions in my own mind, chiefly regarding
the control and regulation of temper, irritability, forbearance, more composed and calm temperament,
order, diligence, dispatch of work, etc." On January 6th there is a Ragged School meeting--"a
long and tiresome meeting; the Duke of A---- speaks well; Guthrie amusing; Fox Maule good;
Candlish clever--very."

On his birthday in 1853 he writes: "I have just made two resolves--first, never to give way
to temper, fret, ill-humour, party spirit, or prejudice; second, to work my best in what I
may have still to do."

There is a great deal more of the journal, but one or two additional extracts will show sufficiently
the nature of the man, his devotion to his sacred duty, his gentleness, and love of peace.
The High Churchman may think him unduly careless about forms and ceremonies; but, loving him
very well, I yet wish to represent the Dean as he really was. Above all things full of charity,
loving religion as he understood the religion of the Gospel, and not much concerned, not really
deeply concerned, about the shape and dress in which it presented itself. He held, however,
that the Protestant Episcopal Church, as established in England, as disestablished in Scotland,
for he never would separate them, was in all its belongings the most desirable, its service
the most decent.

1858 was a sad year for the Dean. Mrs. Ramsay had been very ill, and sinking in strength and
spirit visibly, till, on the 23d July the afflicted husband makes this entry:--"It pleased
God to visit me with the deep and terrible affliction of taking away my friend, companion,
and adviser of twenty-nine years." It was a heavy blow, and for a time it seemed to paralyse
the Dean. This journal, never regular, becomes from this time quite broken.

Looking back from this point, which to the Dean seemed the end of happiness, he could acknowledge
how duty supplied the place of pleasure. He was grateful also for many mercies. In one respect
he was singularly fortunate. His Bishop and he, I may say during all the time he served in
St. John's, were cordially of the same way of thinking. Bishop Terrot was indeed a very different
man from himself, but in the relations of Bishop and Dean they were very happy. The Dean wrote
a little memoir of Bishop Terrot, which he published in the Scottish Guardian (May 15, 1872),
where he prints the remarkable letter from the Bishop to himself, answering the question why
he declined communion with Mr. Drummond, and ending with the sentence--"These are matters of
ecclesiastical police which each local church has a right to manage in its own way, subject
to the law of the Catholic Church, i.e. the Bible." The Dean then bore testimony that he had
always found his Bishop an interesting companion, a kind friend, a faithful and judicious adviser,
and he speaks highly, and surely not too highly, of his great intellectual powers, as well
as of his moral qualities. I am myself a very hearty admirer of Bishop Terrot, and I think
it not out of place to add something to our knowledge of him, by printing a few letters which
concern him and his family.

     COLONEL TERROT to DEAN RAMSAY.--Without date, but of the
     year 1872.

     Very Rev. and dear Sir--There is one little incorrect
     deduction in your kind memoir, or at least a deduction which
     may be made from what you say of my father deriving his
     intellect from his mother---that my grandfather was inferior
     in such respects. From deep feeling and devotion to his
     memory, my grandmother never spoke of her husband to us, but
     from others I have heard that he was a bright, handsome and
     talented young man, who, with the very imperfect education
     given at that time to officers in the army, and employed in
     active service in America at the age of fourteen, was yet
     distinguished for ability, especially in mathematics and
     engineering matters, so that he was employed by those in
     command of the siege, and was actually riding with the
     engineer who was in charge of the sieging operations when a
     cannon-ball struck and killed him. He was in an English
     infantry regiment, and not in the Indian service, except that
     the regiment was serving in India at the time. He met my
     grandmother in the ship which took them to India. She was
     going to a maternal uncle, Colonel Hughes, who was
     considerably displeased on her announcing at Madras that she
     was engaged to a poor young officer who had offered to her
     during the voyage. But the young couple being determined, he
     gave his consent, and continued kind to his niece, and my
     father was born in his house, and at his father's request
     called Hughes after him. My grandfather was twenty-five and
     his bride eighteen at their marriage, and she was a widow
     before she was twenty, from which time till she died at
     eighty-five she was a widow indeed, making her son the chief
     object of her life, living in and for him.

     His uncle William, whom he succeeded at Haddington, was never
     married, and was exceedingly attached to my father. He was a
     singular man; in his early days very gay and handsome, and
     living in some matters, I know not what, so incorrectly, that
     on offering himself for holy orders, the then Bishop of
     Durham wrote to him mentioning something he had heard, and
     telling him if it was true he was not fitly prepared for
     taking orders. My uncle acknowledged the accusation as far as
     it was true, and thanked the Bishop for his letter, and
     abstained from coming forward at that time, but took the
     admonition so to heart that it led to an entire conversion of
     heart and life. He then came forward in a very different
     state to receive ordination, and was through his whole life a
     most zealous and devoted man, a friend of Milner and
     Wilberforce. An old lady, Mrs. Logan of Seafield, told me
     that once when Mrs. Siddons was acting, uncle William walked
     twenty miles to see her and persuade her not to go, and,
     whether by arguments or eloquence, he succeeded. Though kind
     and gentle he was a strong Calvinist, and by his zeal and
     energy in preaching such doctrines, injured himself in a
     worldly point of view. He was always poor, and often gave
     away all the little he had, and lived from hand to mouth. He
     was very much admired and beloved by ladies, which perhaps
     prevented his marrying. He was very happy and useful among
     the sailors, and died at his sister's, Mrs. Jackson, at
     Woolwich. She, as Elizabeth Terrot, had been a beauty, and
     was to the last a fine, happy, spirited, contented and joking
     old lady, very fond of my father, to whom she left all she
     had. She was bright, unselfish and amusing, even on her
     deathbed incapable of despondency or gloom.

     Excuse my troubling you with these details; and believe me to
     be truly grateful for your graceful tribute to our dear
     father. I send a few lines for your private eye, written by
     my sister Mary, expressing what she felt on last seeing him,
     and it expresses, too, exactly what I felt that last Good
     Friday as he sat in that chair in which he had so long
     suffered. I never saw him there again, With deep respect,
     gratefully yours, S.A. TERROT.

LINES by MISS MARY TERROT, now MRS. MALCOLM.

I.

Sad, silent, broken down, longing for rest,
His noble head bent meekly on his breast,
Bent to the bitter storm that o'er it swept;
  I looked my last, and surely, then I thought,
  Surely the conflict's o'er, the battle's fought;
To see him thus, the Saviour might have wept.

II.

His rest was near--his everlasting rest;
No more I saw him weary and oppressed.
There in the majesty of death he lay
  For ever comforted: I could not weep;
  He slept, dear father! his last blessed sleep,
Bright in the dawn of the eternal day.

III.

And thou, whose hand his, groping, sought at last,
The faithful hand that he might hold it fast!
Once more, when parting on the eternal shore,
  It may be, when thy heart and hand shall fail,
  Entering the shadows of death's awful vale
His hand shall grasp thine, groping then no more.

     DEAN STANLEY to DEAN RAMSAY.

     My dear Dean--Many thanks for your very interesting memoir of
     Bishop Terrot. His remark about humdrum and humbug is
     worthy of the best days of Sydney Smith, and so is a hit
     about table-turning[10]. I once heard him preach, and still
     remember with pleasure the unexpected delight it gave to my
     dear mother and myself. We did not know in the least what was
     coming, either from the man or the text, and it was
     excellent.--Yours sincerely,

     A.P. STANLEY.

     Deanery, Westminster, 1872.

     Right Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Hawarden, May 26, 1872

     My dear Friend--I have read with much interest your graceful
     and kindly memoir of Bishop Terrot, which you were so good as
     to send me.

     He had always appeared to me as a very real and notable, and
     therefore interesting man, though for some reason not
     apparent a man manqué, a man who ought to have been more
     notable than he was. I quite understand and follow you in
     placing him with, or rather in the class of, Whately and
     Paley, but he fell short of the robust activity of the first,
     and of that wonderful clearness of the other, which is actual
     brightness.

     Your account of the question of Lordship is to me new and
     interesting. I have never called the Scottish Bishops by that
     title. I should be content to follow the stream, but then we
     must deal equally, and there is the case of the Anglo-Roman
     bishop to meet, especially now that the Ecclesiastical Titles
     Bill has been repealed; but only on Friday I addressed one of
     the very best among them "Right Rev. Bishop M----."

     You will, I am sure, allow me the license of private judgment
     in the two expositions about the church in p. 5. You praise
     both, but the second the more highly. To me the first seems
     excellent, and the second, strange to say, wanting in his
     usual clearness and consecutiveness. For having in head (1)
     most truly said that Christ "instituted a society and
     revealed a doctrine," he then proceeds as if he had quite
     forgotten the first half of the proposition, and conceived of
     the society only as (so to speak) embedded in the doctrine.
     Also, I complain of his depriving you of the character of
     [Greek: iegeus], which indeed I am rather inclined to claim
     for myself, as "He hath made us kings and priests" ([Greek:
     hiegeis]).

     I hope you are gradually maturing the idea of your promised
     summer expedition to the south, and that before long I shall
     hear from you on the subject of it.

     Will you remember me kindly to Miss Cochrane, and believe me,
     ever affectionately yours,

     W.E. GLADSTONE.

The Dean was greatly affected by a terrible calamity, which happened in his house in Ainslie
Place, where, in June of 1866, his niece Lucy Cochrane, one of his family, was burnt to death;
out of many letters of condolence which he received at the time, I have only space to insert
three--one from the Rev. Dr. Hannah, then head of Glenalmond College, an accomplished scholar,
to whom our Dean was much attached, and upon whom he drew very freely in any questions of more
recondite scholarship, another from the Rev. D.T.K. Drummond, and the third from the Premier:--

     Rev. Dr. J. HANNAH to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Trinity College, Glenalmond, N.B.

     June 15, 1866.

     Dear Mr. Dean--I must write one line, though I know you
     will be overwhelmed with letters, to say how deeply
     distressed and shocked we are at the news in this morning's
     paper, and how profoundly we sympathize with you under this
     fearful affliction. I thought instantly of Mr. Keble's lovely
     poem in the Lyra Innocentium:--

"Sweet maiden, for so calm a life, Too bitter seemed thine end."

     And it applies closely, I am sure, in the consolations it
     suggests; that

"He who willed her tender frame Should rear the martyr's robe of flame,"

     has prepared for her a garland in Heaven,

"Tinged faintly with such golden light As crowns His martyr train."

     But if blessed for her, it will be a sore trial for the
     survivors. We feel so keenly for her poor sisters, who seem
     to have to bear the brunt of so many sorrows. May God support
     them and you! So prays in hearty sympathy, yours ever
     sincerely,

     J. HANNAH.

     Rev. D.T.K. DRUMMOND to DEAN RAMSAY.

     St. Fillans, Crieff, 16th June.

     My dear Friend--This morning's paper brought us the sad, sad
     intelligence of the frightful calamity which has befallen
     your household.

     My heart aches when I think of the overwhelming sorrow this
     great affliction must bring to your kind and loving heart.
     Long friendship and unbroken esteem must be my apology for
     intruding on you at this early stage of your bereavement. I
     cannot but express my deep and heart-felt sympathy with you
     in it, and my earnest prayer that God the Holy Spirit may
     sanctify and comfort by his own grace and presence all on
     whom this great sorrow has fallen.

     In the expression of this sympathy my dear wife cordially
     unites with yours most affectionately and truly,

     D.T.K. DRUMMOND.

     Right Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     11 Carlton H. Terrace,

     June 16, 1866.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--I cannot refrain from writing to you a
     word of sympathy under the grievous calamity with which your
     peaceful and united household has in the providence of God
     been visited. I have only heard of it in a very partial
     account to-day; but I deeply lament alike the extinction of a
     young and promising life, the loss your affectionate heart
     has sustained, and the circumstances of horror with which it
     has been accompanied. I need not say how this concern extends
     to your brother the Admiral also. I shall hope to hear of you
     through some common friend. I cannot ask you to write, but
     beg you to believe me always affectionately yours,

     W.E. GLADSTONE.

Very few of the Dean's own letters have been preserved, but the following will show him as
a correspondent:--

     DEAN RAMSAY to Dr. ALEXANDER.

     23 Ainslie Place, Feb. 3, 1865

     Dear Dr. Lindsay Alexander--I am not aware of having an
     undue predominance of modesty in my nature, but really I have
     been surprised, I may truly say much amazed, at the
     dedication of the volume which I received this evening. Need
     I add that, on more calmly considering the matter, I am
     deeply gratified. From Dr. Lindsay Alexander such a
     compliment can be no ordinary gratification. "Laudari a
     laudatis" has always been a distinction coveted by those who
     value the opinion of the wise and good.

     I thank you most cordially for the delicacy with which you
     refer to the "most stedfast adherence to conviction" of one
     who has long been convinced that no differences in matter of
     polity or forms of worship ought to violate that "unity of
     spirit," or sever that "bond of peace," in which we should
     ever seek to join all those whom we believe sincerely to hold
     the truth as it is in Jesus.--I am always, with sincere
     regard, yours truly and obliged,

     E.B. RAMSAY.

     DEAN RAMSAY to Mrs. CLERK, Kingston Deverell.

     23 Ainslie Place,

     Edinburgh, March 14, 1865.

     Dearest Stuart--I take great blame and sorrow to myself for
     having left your kind letter to me on my birthday so long
     unanswered. It was indeed a charming letter, and how it took
     me back to the days of "Auld lang Syne!" They were happy
     days, and good days, and the savour of them is pleasant. Do
     you know (you don't know) next Christmas day is forty-two
     years since I left Frome, and forty-nine years since I went
     to Frome? Well! they were enjoyable days, and rational days,
     and kind-hearted days. What jokes we used to have! O dear!
     How many are gone whom we loved and honoured! I often think
     of my appearing at Frome, falling like a stranger from the
     clouds, and finding myself taken to all your hearts, and made
     like one of yourselves. Do you know Mrs. Watkins is alive and
     clever, and that I constantly correspond with her? You
     recollect little Mary Watkins at Berkely. She is now a
     grandmother and has three or four grandchildren!--ay, time
     passes on. It does. I have had a favoured course in Scotland;
     I have been thirty-seven years in St. John's, and met only
     with kindness and respect. I have done much for my church,
     and that is acknowledged by every one. My Catechism is in a
     tenth edition--my Scottish Book in an eleventh; 3000 copies
     were sold the first week of the cheap or people's edition. I
     meet with much attention from all denominations. A very able
     man here, Dr. Lindsay Alexander, an Indpendent, has just
     dedicated a book (a good one) to Dean Ramsay, with a
     flattering dedication. But I don't expect to hold on much
     longer. I feel changed, and at times not equal to much
     exertion. It was a terrible change for me to lose my
     companion of twenty-nine years, and I have never, of course,
     recovered that loss. It is a great point for a person like me
     to have three nieces, quite devoted to care of me and to make
     me happy: cheerful, animated, and intelligent, pretty
     also--one of them an excellent musician, and organist to
     our amateur choir for week days in the chapel. By the by we
     have a glorious organ. How I have gone on about my miserable
     self--quite egotistical. "If I may be allowed the language"
     (the late Capt. Balne). But I thought you would like it.
     Good-bye. Love to Malcolm Kenmore. When do your boys come?
     Your ever loving and affectionate old friend,

     E.B. RAMSAY.

     DEAN RAMSAY to Mrs. CLERK.

     23 Ainslie Place,

     Edinburgh, 12th Feb. 1868.

     Many thanks for writing about our beloved Bessie, my very
     dear Stuart. She is indeed much endeared to all the friends,
     and I am a friend of more than 50 years! God's will be done.
     We have come to that age when we must know our time is
     becoming very uncertain.

     There is only one thing, dearest Stuart, that I can
     say--my best wishes, best affections, best prayers, are with
     her who now lies on a sick bed. She has not to begin the
     inquiry into the love and support of a gracious Redeemer. She
     may say, "I know that my Redeemer liveth."

     May God be merciful and gracious to support you all on this
     deeply interesting occasion, is the earnest prayer of your
     affectionate old friend, E. B. RAMSAY.

     DEAN RAMSAY to Mrs. CLEKK.

     23 Ainslie Place,

     Edinburgh, 3d June 1870.

     My dear Stuart--I had such a kind letter from you some time
     ago, about visiting you, and I did not answer it--wrong,
     very! and I am sorry I put it off. Should I come to England
     this summer I should look on it as a last visit, and would
     make an effort to see old Frome again. Do you know it is
     fifty-four years since I first appeared at Rodden!

     I preach still, and my voice and articulation don't fail; but
     otherwise I am changed, and walk I cannot at all. St. John's
     goes on as usual--nice people, many, and all are very kind.
     We have lately had the interior renewed, and some changes in
     the arrangement, which are great improvement. It is much
     admired, "a great ornament to our ponds and ditches,"--Dr.
     Woodward. However, dear Stuart, I have not yet said
     distinctly enough what I meant to say at the beginning--that
     should I come south I would make an effort to come to
     K. Deverell.

     Miss Walker has left fully £200,000 to our church. I am at
     present (as Dean) the only Episcopal trustee, with four
     official trustees--all Presbyterians.

     The Bishops seem the most go-ahead people in the church
     just now. New sectioning and revision of Scripture,
     translation, all come from them: both of much importance. I
     wish they could get rid of the so-called Athanasian Creed. I
     cannot bear it. Nothing on earth could ever induce me to
     repeat the first part and the last part. Love to yourself,
     husband, and all yours.--Your affectionate

     E.B. RAMSAY.

     DEAN STANLEY to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Broomhall, Dunfermline,

     7th August 1870.

     My dear and venerable Brother Dean--It was very ungrateful of
     me not to have thanked you before for your most kind
     vindication of my act in Westminster Abbey. I had read your
     letter with the greatest pleasure, and must now thank you for
     letting me have a separate copy of it. I certainly have no
     reason to be dissatisfied with my defenders. All the bishops
     who have spoken on the subject (with the single exception of
     the Bishop of Winchester) have approved the step--so I
     believe have a vast majority of English churchmen.

     How any one could expect that I should make a distinction
     between confirmed and unconfirmed communicants, which would
     render any administration in the abbey impossible, or that I
     should distinguish between the different shades of orthodoxy
     in the different nonconformist communions, I cannot conceive.
     I am sure that I acted as a good churchman. I humbly hope
     that I acted as He who first instituted the Sacrament of the
     Lord's Supper would have wished.

     You are very kind to have taken so much interest in my
     essays, and what you say of the Athanasian Creed is deeply
     instructive. You will be glad to hear--what will become
     public in a few days--that of the 29 Royal Commissioners, 18
     at least--including the Archbishop of Canterbury and the
     Bishops of St. David's and Carlisle and the two Regius
     Professors of Divinity--have declared themselves against
     continuing the use of it.

     I found your note here when we arrived last night to assist
     at the coming of age of young Lord Elgin. We were obliged to
     pass rapidly through Edinburgh, in order to reach this by
     nightfall. In case I am able to come over this week to
     Edinburgh, should I find you at home, and at what hour?

     It would probably be on Thursday that I could most easily
     come.--Yours sincerely,

     A.P. STANLEY.

     DEAN RAMSAY to Rev. MALCOLM CLERK,

     Kingston Deverell, Warminster, Wilts.

     23 Ainslie Place, Edin., Sept. 5 [1872].

     My dear Malcolm Clerk--Many thanks for your remarks touching
     the Athanasian Creed. I agree quite, and am satisfied we gain
     nothing by retaining it, and lose much. You ask if I could
     help to get facsimiles; I am not likely--not in my line I
     fear. Should anything turn up I will look after it. One of
     the propositions to which unlimited faith must be given, is
     drawn from an analogy, which expresses the most obscure of
     all questions in physics--i.e. the union of mind and matter,
     the what constitutes one mortal being--all very well to use
     in explanation or illustration, but as a positive article of
     faith in itself, monstrous. Then the Filioque to be insisted
     on as eternal death to deny!

     People hold such views. A writer in the Guardian (Mr.
     Poyntz) maintains that God looks with more favour upon a man
     living in SIN than upon one who has seceded ever so small
     from orthodoxy. Something must be done, were it only to stop
     the perpetual, as we call it in Scottish phrase,
     blethering!

     I am always glad to hear of your boys. My love to Stuart, and
     same to thyself.--Thine affectionate fourscore old friend,

     E.B. RAMSAY.

I am preparing a twenty-second edition of Reminiscences. Who would have thought it? No man.

I have not hitherto made any mention of the Dean's most popular book, the Reminiscences. I
cannot write but with respect of a work in which he was very much interested, and where he
showed his knowledge of his countrymen so well. As a critic, I must say that his style is peculiarly
unepigrammatic; and yet what collector of epigrams or epigrammatic stories has ever done what
the Dean has done for Scotland? It seems as if the wilful excluding of point was acceptable,
otherwise how to explain the popularity of that book? All over the world, wherever Scotch men
and Scotch language have made their way--and that embraces wide regions--the stories of the
Reminiscences, and Dean Ramsay's name as its author, are known and loved as much as the most
popular author of this generation. In accounting for the marvellous success of the little book,
it should not be forgotten that the anecdotes are not only true to nature, but actually true,
and that the author loved enthusiastically Scotland, and everything Scotch. But while there
were so many things to endear it to the peasantry of Scotland, it was not admired by them alone.
I insert a few letters to show what impression it made on those whom one would expect to find
critical, if not jealous. Dickens, the king of story-tellers; Dr. Guthrie, the most picturesque
of preachers; Bishop Wordsworth, Dean Stanley, themselves masters of style--how eagerly they
received the simple stories of Scotland told without ornament.

     BISHOP WORDSWORTH to DEAN RAMSAY.

     The Feu House, Perth, January 12, 1872.

     My dear Dean--Your kind, welcome and most elegant present
     reached me yesterday--in bed; to which, and to my sofa, I
     have been confined for some days by a severe attack of brow
     ague; and being thus disabled for more serious employment, I
     allowed my thoughts to run upon the lines which you will find
     over leaf. Please to accept them as being well intended;
     though (like many other good intentions) I am afraid they
     give only too true evidence of the source from which they
     come--viz., disordered head.--Yours very sincerely,

     C. WORDSWORTH,

     Bp. of St. Andrews.

Ad virum venerabilem, optimum, dilectissimum, EDVARDUM B. RAMSAY, S.T.P., Edinburgi Decanum,
accepto ejus libro cui titulus Reminiscences, etc.; vicesimum jam lautiusque et amplius edito.

Editio accessit vicesima! plaudite quiequid
  Scotia festivi fert lepidique ferax!
Non vixit frustra qui frontem utcunque severam,
  Noverit innocuis explicuisse jocis:
Non frustra vixit qui tot monumenta priorum
  Salsa pia vetuit sedulitate mori:
Non frustra vixit qui quali nos sit amore
  Vivendum, exemplo præcipiensque docet:
Nec merces te indigna manet: juvenesque senesque
  Gaudebunt nomen concelebrare tuum;
Condiet appositum dum fercula nostra salinum,
  Præbebitque suas mensa secunda nuces;
Dum stantis rhedæ aurigam tua pagina fallet,
  Contentum in sella tædia longa pati!
Quid, quod et ipsa sibi devinctum Scotia nutrix
  Te perget gremio grata fovere senem;
Officiumque pium simili pietate rependens,
  Sæcula nulla sinet non[11] meminisse Tui.

The TRANSLATION is from the pen of DEAN STANLEY:--

Hail, Twentieth Edition! From Orkney to Tweed,
  Let the wits of all Scotland come running to read.
Not in vain hath he lived, who by innocent mirth
  Hath lightened the frowns and the furrows of earth:
Not in vain hath he lived, who will never let die
  The humours of good times for ever gone by:
Not in vain hath he lived, who hath laboured to give
  In himself the best proof how by love we may live.
Rejoice, our dear Dean, thy reward to behold
  In united rejoicing of young and of old;
Remembered, so long as our boards shall not lack
  A bright grain of salt or a hard nut to crack;
So long as the cabman aloft on his seat,
  Broods deep o'er thy page as he waits in the street!
Yea, Scotland herself, with affectionate care,
  Shall nurse an old age so beloved and so rare;
And still gratefully seek in her heart to enshrine
  One more Reminiscence, and that shall be Thine.

     From the DEAN of WESTMINSTER.

     The Deanery, Westminster,

     February 3, 1872.

     My dear elder (I cannot say eldest so long as the Dean of
     Winchester lives) Brother--I am very glad that you are
     pleased with my attempt to render into English the Bishop's
     beautiful Latinity....

     Accept our best wishes for many happy returns of the day just
     past.--Yours sincerely,

     A.P. STANLEY.

On the publication of the Twentieth Edition of the Reminiscences, Professor Blackie addressed
to the Dean the following sonnets:--

I.

  Hail! wreathed in smiles, thou genial book! and hail
  Who wove thy web of bright and various hue,
  The wise old man, who gleaned the social tale
  And thoughtful jest and roguish whim, that grew
  Freely on Scotland's soil when Scotland knew
  To be herself, nor lusted to assume
  Smooth English ways--that they might live and bloom
  With freshness, ever old and ever new
  In human hearts. Thrice happy he who knows
  With sportive light the cloudy thought to clear,
  And round his head the playful halo throws
  That plucks the terror from the front severe:
  Such grace was thine, and such thy gracious part,
Thou wise old Scottish man of large and loving heart.

II.

  The twentieth edition! I have looked
  Long for my second--but it not appears;
  Yet not the less I joy that thou hast brooked
  Rich fruit of fair fame, and of mellow years,
  Thou wise old man, within whose saintly veins
  No drop of gall infects life's genial tide,
  Whose many-chambered human heart contains
  No room for hatred and no home for pride.
  Happy who give with stretch of equal love
  This hand to Heaven and that to lowly earth,
  Wise there to worship with great souls above
  As here to sport with children in their mirth;
  Who own one God with kindly-reverent eyes
In flowers that prink the earth, and stars that gem the skies.

JOHN STUART BLACKIE.

     CHARLES DICKENS to DEAN RAMSAY.

     My dear Sir--I am but now in the receipt of your kind letter,
     and its accompanying book. If I had returned home sooner, I
     should sooner have thanked you for both.

     I cannot adequately express to you the gratification I have
     derived from your assurance that I have given you pleasure.
     In describing yourself as a stranger of whom I know nothing,
     you do me wrong however. The book I am now proud to possess
     as a mark of your goodwill and remembrance has for some time
     been too well known to me to admit of the possibility of my
     regarding its writer in any other light than as a friend in
     the spirit; while the writer of the introductory page marked
     viii. in the edition of last year[12] had commanded my
     highest respect as a public benefactor and a brave soul.

     I thank you, my dear Sir, most cordially, and I shall always
     prize the words you have inscribed in this delightful volume,
     very, very highly.--Yours faithfully and obliged,

     CHARLES DICKENS.

     Dr. GUTHRIE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     1 Salisbury Road,

     30th October 1872.

     My dear Mr. Dean--My honoured and beloved friend, I have
     received many sweet, tender, and Christian letters touching
     my late serious illness, but among them all none I value
     more, or almost so much, as your own.

     May the Lord bless you for the solace and happiness it gave
     to me and mine! How perfect the harmony in our views as to
     the petty distinctions around which--sad and shame to think
     of it--such fierce controversies have raged! I thank God that
     I, like yourself, have never attached much importance to
     these externals, and have had the fortune to be regarded as
     rather loose on such matters. We have just, by God's grace,
     anticipated the views and aspects they present on a deathbed.

     I must tell you how you helped us to pass many a weary,
     restless hour. After the Bible had been read to me in a low
     monotone--when I was seeking sleep and could not find it--a
     volume of my published sermons was tried, and sometimes very
     successfully, as a soporific. I was familiar with them, and
     yet they presented as much novelty as to divert my mind from
     my troubles. And what if this failed? then came the
     Reminiscences to entertain me, and while away the long
     hours when all hope of getting sleep's sweet oblivion
     was given up!

     So your book was one of my many mercies. But oh, how great in
     such a time the unspeakable mercy of a full, free, present
     salvation! In Wesley's words

          "I the chief of sinners am,
          But Jesus died for me."

     I have had a bit of a back-throw, but if you could come
     between three and four on Friday, I would rejoice to see
     you.--Ever yours, with the greatest esteem,

     THOMAS GUTHRIE.

     Miss STIRLING GRAHAM to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Duntrune, 8th January 1872.

     My dear Mr. Dean--I thank you very much for the gift of your
     new edition of "Scottish Reminiscences," and most especially
     for the last few pages on Christian union and liberality,
     which I have read with delight.

     I beg also to thank you for the flattering and acceptable
     testimonial you have bestowed on myself.--Your most
     respectful and grateful friend,

     CLEMENTINA STIRLING GRAHAM.

     Rev. Dr. HANNA to DEAN RAMSAY.

     16 Magdala Crescent, 11th January 1872.

     Dear Dean Ramsay--I have been touched exceedingly by your
     kindness in sending me a copy of the twentieth edition of the
     Reminiscences.

     It was a happy thought of Mr. Douglas to present it to the
     public in such a handsome form--the one in which it will take
     its place in every good library in the country.

     I am especially delighted with the last twenty pages of this
     edition. Very few had such a right to speak about the strange
     commotion created by the act of the two English Bishops, and
     the manner in which they tried to lay the storm, and still
     fewer could have done it with such effect.

     One fruit of your work is sure to abide. As long as Scotland
     lasts, your name will "be associated with gentle and happy
     Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character."

     Mrs. Hanna joins me in affectionate regard.--With highest
     respect and esteem, I ever am, yours very truly,

     WM. HANNA.

     DEAN RAMSAY to Rev. Dr. L. ALEXANDER.

     23 Ainslie Place, Edinburgh.

     January 29, 1872.

     My clear Dr. Alexander--Since I had the pleasure of your most
     agreeable visit, and its accompanying conversation, I have
     been very unwell and hardly left the house. You mentioned the
     reference made by Dean Stanley (?) to the story of the
     semi-idiot boy and his receiving the communion with such
     heart-felt reality. I forgot to mention that, summer before
     last, two American gentlemen were announced, who talked very
     pleasantly before I found who they were--one a Baptist
     minister at Boston, and the other a professor in a college. I
     did not know why they had called at all until the minister
     let on that he did not like to be in Edinburgh without
     waiting upon the author of Reminiscences, as the book had
     much interested him in Scottish life, language and character,
     before he had been a visitor on the Scottish shores. "But
     chiefly," he added, "I wished to tell you that the day before
     I sailed I preached in a large store to above two thousand
     people; that from your book I had to them brought forward the
     anecdote of the simpleton lad's deep feeling in seeing the
     'pretty man' in the communion, and of his being found dead
     next morning." To which he added, in strong American tones,
     "I pledge myself to you, sir, there was not a dry eye in
     the whole assembly."

     It is a feature of modern times how anecdotes, sayings,
     expressions, etc., pass amongst the human race. I have
     received from Sir Thomas Biddulph an expression of the
     Queen's pleasure at finding pure Scottish anecdotes have
     been so popular in England. How fond she is of
     Scotland!--With much esteem, I am very truly yours,

     E.B. RAMSAY.

The Dean was an enthusiastic admirer of Dr. Chalmers, and on the evening of March 4, 1849,
he read a memoir of the life and labours of Chalmers at a meeting of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
That memoir, although it had been to a great extent anticipated by Rev. Dr. Hanna's fine and
copious memoir of his father-in-law, was printed in the Society Transactions, and afterwards
went through several editions when issued in a separate volume.

     LORD MEDWTN to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Ainslie Place, Thursday morning

     My dear Mr. Ramsay--I beg to thank you most truly for your
     very acceptable gift so kindly sent to me yesterday evening.
     I had heard with the greatest satisfaction of the admirable
     sketch you had read to the Royal Society of the public
     character of the latest of our Scottish worthies--a very
     remarkable man in many respects; one whose name must ever
     stand in the foremost rank of Christian philanthropists; all
     whose great and various talents and acquirements being
     devoted with untiring energy to the one great object--the
     temporal and eternal benefit of mankind. What I also greatly
     admired about him was that all the great adulation he met
     with never affected his simple-mindedness; his humility was
     remarkable. There was the same absence of conceit or
     assumption of any kind which also greatly distinguished his
     great cotemporary, our friend Walter Scott; in truth, both
     were too far elevated above other men to seek any
     adventitious distinction. I wish our country could show more
     men like Chalmers to hold up to imitation, or if too exalted
     to be imitated, yet still to be proud of; and that they were
     fortunate enough to have admirers such as you, capable of
     recording their worth in an éloge, such as the public has
     the satisfaction of receiving at your hands. Again I beg to
     thank you for your kind remembrance of me on the present
     occasion.--Believe me, my dear Sir, yours very truly,

     J.H. FORBES.

     Dr. CANDLISH to DEAN RAMSAY.

     4 S. Charlotte Street, Tuesday, 6th March.

     My dear Sir--I cannot deny myself the pleasure of expressing
     to you the deep interest and delight with which I listened to
     your discourse last night, so worthy, in every view, of the
     subject, the occasion, and the audience. And while I thank
     you most sincerely for so cordial and genial a tribute to the
     memory of the greatest of modern Scotsmen, I venture to
     express my hope that we may be favoured with an earlier and
     wider publication of it than the Transactions of the Royal
     Society will afford.--Pray excuse this intrusion, and believe
     me, yours very truly,

     ROB. S. CANDLISH.

     Dean Ramsay.

     I will indulge myself only with one phrase from the Dean's
     memoir of Dr. Chalmers:--"Chalmers's greatest delight was to
     contrive plans and schemes for raising degraded human nature
     in the scale of moral living. The favourite object of his
     contemplation was human nature attaining the highest
     perfection of which it is capable, and especially as that
     perfection was manifested in saintly individuals, in
     characters of great acquirements, adorned with the graces of
     Christian piety. His greatest sorrow was to contemplate
     masses of mankind hopelessly bound to vice and misery by
     chains of passion, ignorance, and prejudice. As no one more
     firmly believed in the power of Christianity to regenerate a
     fallen race, as faith and experience both conspired to assure
     him that the only effectual deliverance for the sinful and
     degraded was to be wrought by Christian education, and by the
     active agency of Christian instruction penetrating into the
     haunts of vice and the abodes of misery, these acquisitions
     he strove to secure for all his beloved countrymen; for these
     he laboured, and for these he was willing to spend and to
     be spent."

     That high yet just character not only shows Dean Ramsay's
     appreciation of Chalmers, but seems to show that he had
     already set him up as the model which he himself was to
     follow. At any rate, he attempted to stir up the public mind
     to give some worthy testimonial to the greatest of modern
     Scotsmen. A few letters connected with this subject I have
     put together. I did not think it necessary to collect more,
     since the object has been attained under difficulties of time
     and distance which might have quelled a less enthusiastic
     admirer. It is pleasant to notice the general consent with
     which we agree that no one else was so fitted to recommend
     the Chalmers memorial as Dean Ramsay.

     It was to do honour to my own little book that I ventured,
     without asking leave, to print the few lines which follow,
     from the great French writer, the high minister of State, the
     patron of historical letters for half-a-century in France,
     the Protestant Guizot.

     M. GUIZOT to the DEAN.

     Paris, ce 7 Février 1870,

     10 Rue Billault.

     Sir--Je m'associerai avec un vrai et sérieux plaisir à
     l'érection d'une statue en l'honneur du Dr. Chalmers. Il n'y
     a point de théologien ni de moraliste Chrétien à qui je porte
     une plus haute estime. Sur quelques unes des grandes
     questions qu' il a traitées, je ne partage pas ses opinions;
     mais j'honore et j'admire l'élévation, la vigueur de sa
     pensé, et la beauté morale de son génie. Je vous prie,
     Monsieur, de me compter parmi les hommes qui se féliciteront
     de pouvoir lui rendre un solennel hommage, et je vous
     remercie d'avoir pensé à moi dans ce dessein.

     Reçevez l'assurance de mes sentiments les plus distingués.

     GUIZOT.

     Mr. E.B. Ramsay, Dean, etc., 23 Ainslie Place, Edinburgh,
     North Britain.

Some of Mr. Gladstone's letters, already printed, show that they were not the beginning of
the correspondence between him and the Dean. The accident which made them acquainted will be
mentioned afterwards (p. lxxxi.)

     Right Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Hawarden Castle, Chester,

     Jan. 3, 1870.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--I send you my rather shabby contribution
     of £10 to the Chalmers' Memorial. I wish it were more, but I
     am rather specially pressed at this time; and I think I
     refused Robert Bruce altogether not long ago.

     I quite understand the feeling of the Scotch aristocracy,
     but I should have thought Lothian would be apart from, as
     well as above it.

     But the number of subscriptions is the main thing, and very
     many they ought to be if Scotland is Scotland still. He was
     one of Nature's nobles. It is impossible even to dream that a
     base or unworthy thought ever found harbour for a moment
     in his mind.

     Is it not extraordinary to see this rain of Bishoprics upon
     my head? Nor (I think) is it over; the next twelvemonth
     (wherever I may be at the end of it) will, I think, probably
     produce three more.

     Bishop Temple is a fine fellow, and I hope all will now go
     well. For Manchester (this is secret) I hope to have Mr.
     Fraser of Clifton--a very notable man, in the first rank of
     knowledge and experience on the question of education. Many
     pressed him for Salisbury.

     I can truly say that every Bishop who has been appointed has
     been chosen simply as the best man to be had.

     Ah! when will you spend that month here, which I shall never
     cease to long for?--Ever affectionately yours,

     W.E. GLADSTONE.

     Rev. Dr. CANDLISH to DEAN RAMSAY.

     52 Melville Street, 7th Dec. 1870.

     Dear Dean Ramsay--I should have acknowledged yours of the 1st
     sooner. I cannot say that I regret the conclusion to which
     you have come, though. I would have done my best to help on
     the larger movement.... I very willingly acquiesce in the
     wisdom of your resolution to accept the position, for it is
     one which you may well accept with satisfaction and
     thankfulness. You have accomplished what I doubt if any other
     man could have even ventured to propose, at so late a period
     after Dr. Chalmers' death. It will be a historical fact, made
     palpable to succeeding ages, that you have wiped off a
     discredit from Scotland's church and nation, by securing a
     suitable memorial of one of her most distinguished sons, in
     the most conspicuous position the Metropolis could assign to
     it. It will be for us of the Free Church to recognise in our
     archives the high compliment paid to our illustrious leader
     and chief in the great movement of the Disruption by one of
     other ecclesiastical convictions and leanings. But we must
     always do that under the feeling that it is not in that
     character that you know Chalmers; but in the far broader
     aspect in which you have so happily celebrated him as a
     Christian philanthropist, a patriot, and a divine.

     I conclude with earnest congratulations on the complete
     success, as I regard it, of your generous proposal; and I am
     yours very truly,

     ROB. S. CANDLISH.

     Rev. Dr. DUFF to DEAN RAMSAY.

     The Grange, 29th June.

     Very Rev. and dear Sir--Many thanks for your kind note with
     its enclosures.

     From my sad experience in such matters, I am not at all
     surprised at the meagre number of replies to your
     printed circular.

     When I first learnt from the newspaper of the meeting held in
     your house, and of Dr. Guthrie's proposal, I had a strong
     impression that the latter was on far too extensive a
     scale--but remained silent, being only anxious, in a quiet
     way, to do what I could in promoting the general design.

     Having had much to do during the last forty years with the
     raising of funds for all manner of objects, in different
     lands, I have come to know something of men's tempers and
     dispositions in such cases, and under peculiar circumstances
     and conditions. I therefore never expected the £20,000 scheme
     to succeed; unless, indeed, it were headed by a dozen or so
     at £1000, or at least £500 each--a liberality not to be
     expected for such an object at this time of day.

     Your present plan, therefore, I think a wise one--viz., to
     constitute yourselves into "a statue committee," for the
     successful carrying out of your own original and very
     practicable design,--handing over any surplus funds which may
     remain to any other committee or body willing to prosecute
     the larger professorship or lectureship scheme.--I remain,
     very Rev. and dear Sir, yours very sincerely,

     ALEXANDER DUFF.

I am indebted for the following letters to the Rev. Dr. Lindsay Alexander. If I wrote only
for Scotsmen, it would be unnecessary to speak of Dr. Alexander as holding a place which he
seems to me, ignorant as I am of Church disputes, to owe to his own high personal merit, and
the independence which makes him free to think and to write as scarcely any clergyman fettered
with the supposed claims of sect or denomination feels himself at liberty to do. As our Dean
got older we find him drawing more kindly to those whose Christianity was shown in other guise
than in sectarian precision with some spice of persecution.

     23 Ainslie Place, Feb. 28, 1866.

     I have found, as others have, the "Biblical Commentary" a
     very useful companion in sermon-writing. It gives you the
     Scripture parallel passages bodily, and saves the trouble of
     turning backwards and forwards to find the marginal
     references and to examine their relevancy. The work is
     published by Bagster, and he generally, I believe, gets his
     work pretty well done, and, so far as I can judge, it is
     judiciously selected, generally at least.

     Now, dear Dr. Alexander, if you would accept of the copy of
     this work which I have sent, and accept it from me, and if it
     should prove a useful companion in your homiletical labours,
     I should feel much gratified. Perhaps it may be a remembrance
     amongst your books, when years have passed away, of one in
     his grave who had a sincere regard for you, and who now signs
     himself, yours very faithfully,

     E.B. RAMSAY.

     23 Ainslie Place, Jan. 11, 1866.

     My dear Dr. Alexander--You will not suppose me to be an
     advocate for the donkeyism of vestment ritual. But I wish you
     not to have unfavourable impressions as regard our concern
     with such matters. We have a canon declaratory on vestments,
     asserting the ordinary surplice, gown, hood, and stole. It is
     stupidly worded, but the meaning is obvious. I was vexed from
     your experience to hear of such foolish proceedings at Bridge
     of Allan, contrary to canon and to common sense.... The
     green part of the dress which caused your wonder, naturally
     enough, is not a freak of new vestments, but is a foolish way
     which the Glenalmond students have adopted of wearing the
     hood, which our Bishops (not without diversity of opinion)
     had granted for those who had been educated at our College.
     It is a hood lined with green (Scottish thistle colour),
     and they have a way of wearing it in a manner which brings
     the coloured part in front. Pray, pray, don't think of
     answering this; it is merely to correct an unfavourable
     impression in one whose favourable opinion I much desiderate.
     I cannot tell you the pleasure I had in your visit on
     Tuesday.--With sincere regard, yours always, E.B. RAMSAY.

     23 Ainslie Place, June 8, 1866.

     Dear Dr. Alexander--I forgot to mention a circumstance
     connected with my story of to-day. I have had a communicant
     thereanent with Dr. Robert Lee. The good Dr., although fond
     of introducing Episcopalian practices, which cause great
     indignation amongst some of his brethren, does not wish it to
     be understood that he has the least tendency to become an
     Episcopalian himself. In short, he hinted to me himself that
     were such an idea to become prevalent it would materially
     weaken his influence with many followers. "It is to improve
     my own church, not to join yours," were his words, or to that
     effect. In carrying out this idea he has a hit in his
     "Reformation of the Church of Scotland" against
     Episcopalians, and in the first edition he brings up Dean
     Ramsay and the unfortunate statement he had made, as a
     melancholy proof how hopeless were even the most specious of
     the Scottish Episcopal Church on the subject of toleration. I
     told him that so far as that statement went it proved
     nothing, that it had been wrung from me in an unguarded
     moment, and that I had for fourteen years borne unequivocal
     testimony to views which were opposite to that statement. He
     received the explanation most kindly, and offered to do
     anything I wished, but we both at length agreed that the best
     plan would be simply to omit it in the second edition, which
     was preparing and has since come out. It was omitted.

     I am, dear Dr. Alexander, with true regard, ever yours most
     sincerely, E.B. RAMSAY.

     23 Ainslie Place, August 26, 1867.

     Dear Dr. Alexander--I have lately returned to Edinburgh,
     having paid a visit to my own country on Deeside. On Saturday
     I drove down to Musselburgh, and had an express object in
     calling upon you to ask how you were. But I found I had been
     wrong directed to Pinkie Burn, and that to accomplish my
     visit, I must have made a détour which would have detained
     me too long. I had an engagement waiting me, and I found my
     strength pretty well exhausted. I wish, however, to notify my
     intention of a visit. I have had a very severe illness
     since we met, and have not regained my former position, and
     do not think I ever shall. I was very, very close upon the
     gate we must all pass, and I believe a few hours longer of
     the fever's continuance would have closed the scene. I don't
     think I dread to meet death. I have so largely experienced
     the goodness of God through (now) a long life, and I feel so
     deeply, and I trust so humbly, the power of his grace and
     mercy in Christ, that, I can calmly contemplate the approach
     of the last hour. But I confess I do shrink from encountering
     an undefined period of bodily and mental imbecility; of being
     helpless, useless, a burden. I have been so distressed to see
     all this come upon our bishop, Dr. Terrot; the once clear,
     acute, sharp, and ready man. Oh, it is to my mind the most
     terrible affliction of our poor nature. I have known lately
     an unusual number of such cases before me, and I hope I am
     not unreasonably apprehensive as to what may come. I hope
     your family all are well, and that you are fully up to your
     work in all its forms.--I am, believe me, with much regard,
     very sincerely yours, E.B. RAMSAY.

     Without date.

     My dear Dr. Alexander--I feel deeply obliged by your kind
     gift to Bishop Whipple. His simple heart will be gratified
     much. I am so vexed at having mislaid two letters from him. I
     should have liked you to see and to know the bishop by seeing
     and reading them. They are models of simple, loving,
     Christian feeling. He went to Minnesota as to a new rough
     state just added to the United States. He took five
     clergymen. He has now above thirty and a college (for which
     he asked the books). He is beloved by all, and loves all. The
     Red Indians worship him. He is so considerate of them. They
     suffer from bad teeth, and on some occasions he has drawn 150
     teeth before a prayer-meeting in the woods, from Indians who
     were suffering pain....

     I will take care Bishop Whipple shall know of your goodness.
     I am so vexed I can't find his letters.

     23 Ainslie Place, Edinburgh,

     November 26, 1871.

     Dear Dr. Alexander--You will be sorry to hear that my
     brother, Sir William, is very ill. This morning we had
     given up all idea of his rallying, but since that he has
     shown symptoms of a more favourable character. His state is
     still a very precarious one, and I fear much we must make up
     our minds to lose him. God's will be done! We are sure he is
     prepared for his change. He has long been a sincere believer
     in the great work and offices of the Lord Jesus, and he has
     followed up his profession of belief by liberal and judicious
     expenditure on benevolent objects.

     I have heard of your being in London at the Revision, and you
     may probably be there now. But when you return to Edinburgh,
     the Admiral would be most glad to see you when able to call
     in Ainslie Place. Sir William is three years younger than I,
     but he has had a more trying life. His death (should such be
     God's will) must be a great blank for me. But for me it
     cannot be a long one.--Hoping you are well, I am, with much
     regard, most sincerely yours, E.B. RAMSAY.

Very soon after the date of this letter Admiral William Ramsay died, who had lived with his
brother the Dean in the most affectionate friendship for many years. Their duties and interests
were identical. William Ramsay was known as the promoter of every scheme of benevolence in
Edinburgh.

     Right Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Hawarden, December 7, 1871.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--It is with much grief that we have seen
     the announcement of the heavy loss you have sustained in the
     death of your brother. It was a beautiful union, which is now
     for the time dissolved. One has been taken, and the other
     left. The stronger frame has been broken, the weaker one
     still abides the buffetings of the sea of life. And I feel a
     very strong conviction, even at this sad moment, and with
     your advancing age, that the balance of your mind and
     character will remain unshaken through your habitual and
     entire acceptance of the will of God. I write then only to
     express my sincere regard for the dead, strong sympathy with
     the living. Such as it is, and knowing it to be pure, I offer
     it; would it were more worthy, and would that I, let me
     rather say--for my wife enters into all these feelings--that
     we were able in any way at this especial time to minister to
     your comfort.

     I fear the stroke must have come rather suddenly, but no
     dispensation could, I think, in the sense really dangerous,
     be sudden to you.

     Accept, my dear Dean, our affectionate wishes, and be assured
     we enter into the many prayers which will ascend on your
     behalf. Your devoted niece will sorely feel this, but it will
     be to her a new incentive in the performance of those loving
     duties to which she has so willingly devoted her heart and
     mind.--Believe me always your affectionate friend, W.E.
     GLADSTONE.

     Rev. D.T.K. DRUMMOND to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Montpelier, Thursday.

     My dear Friend--I did not like to intrude on you in the very
     freshness of your home sorrow. But you know how much I loved
     and respected your brother, and how truly and heartily I
     sympathise with you. There were few in Edinburgh so much
     beloved as Sir William, and it will be long indeed ere the
     memory of his goodness shall pass away. Such men in the
     quiet, private, and unassuming walk, are often much more
     missed and more extensively lamented than men who have been
     more in the eye of the public, and during their life have had
     much of public observation and favour. It is trying for us
     who are far on in the pilgrimage to see one and another of
     our brothers and sisters pass away before us. I have seen
     ten go before me, and am the only one left; and yet it
     seems as if the old feeling of their leaving us is being
     exchanged for the brighter and happier consciousness that
     they are coming to meet us, or at least that the gathering
     band are BEFORE us, and looking our way, expecting the time
     when we too shall pass through the veil, leaning on the arm
     of the Beloved. I earnestly pray, my dear friend, for the
     Master's loving help and comfort to you from henceforth
     even for ever.

     I cannot close this without, in a sentence, expressing my
     very great delight in reading your words regarding brotherly
     intercommunion among members of Churches who hold the same
     Truth, love the same Lord, and are bound to the same "better
     land." I do rejoice with all my heart that you have given
     utterance to the sentiments so carefully and admirably
     expressed by you. I go heart and soul with you in the large
     and liberal and Christ-like spirit of the views you propound;
     and feel with you that all such brotherly esteem and hearty
     and candid co-operation only makes me love my own church
     better, because such love is unmixed with the exclusiveness
     which sees nothing good save in the Communion to which we
     ourselves belong.

     Thank you most heartily for what you have written.--Ever very
     affectionately yours, D.T.K. DRUMMOND.

When the Ramsays were under the necessity of selling most of their property in the Mearns,
the purchaser of Fasque was Mr. Gladstone, not yet a baronet; and, what does not always happen,
the families of the buyer and the seller continued good friends, and Sir John, the great merchant,
by his advice and perhaps other help, assisted some of the young Ramsays, who had still to
push their way to fortune. I believe William, afterwards Admiral, was guided by him in the
investment and management of a little money, which prospered, notwithstanding his innumerable
bounties to the poor. The Dean also was obliged to Sir John Gladstone, but only for kindness
and hospitalities.

On the Ramsays going to London in the summer of 1845, the journal records what nice rooms they
had, and how happy they were at Mr. Gladstone's, where they saw a good deal of their host--"a
man who at eighty-one possesses the bodily and mental vigour of the prime of life." The Dean
was struck with the old man's abilities. "Mr. Gladstone would have been successful in any undertaking
or any pursuits--a man fitted to grapple with the highest subjects."

From that period much intercourse took place between the Premier and our Dean. There are mutual
visits between Hawarden and Edinburgh, and I find a good deal of correspondence between them;
at least I find the letters on one side. The Dean preserved Mr. Gladstone's letters, but the
counterparts are probably not preserved. One-sided as they are, the little packet in my hand,
of letters from the great Statesman to the rural clergyman is not without interest. The correspondence
has been friendly, frank and confidential, the writers often differing in immaterial things,
but showing the same liberality in "Church and State;" so that we are not surprised to find,
when the time came, that of the friends, the churchman approved of Irish disestablishment as
heartily as the layman who was its author.

     Right Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     10 Downing Street, Whitehall, Jan. 20, 1869.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--I need not tell you I am no fit judge of
     your brother's claims, but I shall send your letter
     privately to the First Lord, who, I am sure, will give it an
     impartial and friendly consideration.

     Pray remember me to the Admiral, and be assured it will give
     me sincere pleasure if your wish on his behalf can be
     gratified.

     I write from Hawarden, but almost en route for London, and
     the arduous work before us.

     My mind is cheerful, and even sanguine about it.

     I wish I had some chance or hope of seeing you, and I remain
     affectionately yours, W.E. GLADSTONE.

The Bishop of Salisbury has been for days at the point of death. He is decidedly better, but
cannot recover. Let him have a place in your prayers.

     Windsor Castle, June 24, 1871.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--The attraction of the Scott Centenary to
     Edinburgh is strong, and your affectionate invitation makes
     it stronger still. I do not despair of being free, and if
     free, I mean to use my freedom, so as to profit by both. At
     the same time the delays and obstructions to business have
     been so formidable that I must not as yet presume to forecast
     the time when I may be able to escape from London, and
     therefore I fear I must draw upon your indulgence to allow me
     some delay. The session may last far into August, but the
     stars may be more propitious.

     We are all grumbling at an unusually cold year, and the
     progress of vegetation seems to be suspended, but I trust no
     serious harm is yet done; as Louis Napoleon said, tout peut
     se retablir.

     It would indeed be delightful could I negotiate for a right
     to bring you back with me on coming southwards.

     So glad to hear a good account of your health and appearance
     from our Lord Advocate; a clever chiel, is he not?--Ever
     affectionately yours, W.E. GLADSTONE.

     My wife sends her kind love.

     10 Downing Street, Whitehall, July 25, 1871.

     My dear Friend--From day to day my hopes of attending the
     Scott Centenary have been declining, and I regret much to say
     that they are now virtually dead. The extraordinary
     obstructions which have been offered to public business
     during the present session have now, as you will see, brought
     us to such a pass that some suggest an adjournment from
     August to some period in the autumn, to enable us to get
     through what we have in hand. Whether we do this, or whether
     we finish off at once, it is now, I fear, practically certain
     that there is no chance of my being free to leave town at the
     time of the Centenary.

     We paid Tennyson a visit from last Saturday to Tuesday. He is
     a sincere and ardent admirer of Scott, and heartily wishes
     well to anything which is likely to keep him before the minds
     of the on-coming generation.

     His Sussex abode is beautiful, 600 feet above the sea, with a
     splendid view. He seems to be very happy in his family.

     With regard to the Emperor of Brazil, I think any application
     made to him would come best from those officially connected
     with the celebration. At any rate, I fear it would be
     obtrusive on my part to mix in it, as I have no special
     relation with him, though he has made a most pleasing
     impression on me.

     I now expect to go to Balmoral in the middle of September,
     and should much wish to know whether I might visit you on my
     way north or south.--Always affectionately yours, W.E.
     GLADSTONE.

     10 Downing Street, Whitehall, August 8, 1871.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--Do what you like with the inclosed. It
     is written at the last moment, and because you asked for it,
     by a man who was nine hours in the House yesterday, and has
     to be there nine to-day, besides a fair share of a day's work
     outside it to boot.

     I hope you received a subscription from Royal Bounty which I
     sent for Archibald's family. I can give five pounds myself
     also.--Ever your affectionate friend,

     W.E. GLADSTONE.

     11 Carlton House Terrace, S.W., August 8, 1871.

     My dear Dean Ramsay---I wish I could convey to you adequately
     the regret with which I find myself cut off from any
     possibility of joining in the tribute to be paid to-morrow to
     the memory of the first among the sons of Scotland. He was
     the idol of my boyhood, and though I well know that my
     admiration is worth little, it has never varied.

     In his case the feeling is towards the man as much as towards
     his works. Did we not possess a line from his pen, his life
     would stand as a true epic.

     I will not say I think him as strong in his modern politics
     as in some other points, but I find my general estimate of
     the great and heroic whole affected only in the slightest
     degree by this point of qualified misgiving.

     If he is out of fashion with some parts of some classes, it
     is their misfortune, not his. He is above fluctuations of
     time, for his place is in the Band of the Immortals.

     The end of my letter shall be better worth your having than
     the beginning. A fortnight ago I visited Tennyson, and found
     him possessed with all the sentiments about Scott which your
     celebration is meant to foster.--I remain in haste,
     affectionately yours. W.E. GLADSTONE.

     Hawarden Castle, Chester, January 12, 1872.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--I was at once obliged, gratified, and
     comforted by your letter. This has been a great storm, but it
     has not rooted you up, and He whom you live to serve,
     evidently has yet more service for you to do. Those remaining
     in the world cannot be wife or brother to you, but how many
     there are who would if they could, and who will be all
     they can!

     The testimonies you send me are full of touching interest.

     My wife has received to-day the beautiful present of the new
     edition of your book. She will enjoy it immensely. I hope to
     send you, when I get to London, a little work called the
     "Mirror of Monks." Let not the title alarm you. It is in the
     manner of à Kempis, and is original, as well as excellent and
     lofty. I have had much Scotch reading. The "Life of Dr. Lee;"
     Macdonald's "Love, Law, and Theology;" last, not least, Lady
     Nairne. I am equally struck with her life, and her singularly
     beautiful songs, and this though she was Tory and Puritan; I
     am opposed to both. Her character brings into view a problem
     common to all times, but also I suppose special to this. I
     take it that if there is a religious body upon earth that
     fully and absolutely deserves the character of schismatical,
     it is your Drummond secession. Yet not only is this noble and
     holy woman in it, but even my own narrow experience has
     supplied me with other types of singular excellence and
     elevation within its pale; and the considerations hereby
     suggested are of immensely wide application.

     I trust that your Walker Cathedral will be thoroughly good,
     and that your Bishop's book is prospering.

     You will be glad to hear that the solemn thanksgiving at St.
     Paul's may be regarded as decided on, to my great
     satisfaction.

     If you will let me have particulars of any case such as you
     describe, I will most readily see what can be done; and now
     farewell, my dear friend.--Always affectionately yours, W.E.
     GLADSTONE.

If not quite so popular as some of the Dean's other correspondents, he whose letter I bring
forward here stood as high as any man in the estimation of the better and most thinking classes
of Scotsmen.

Thomas Erskine of Linlathen, though no clergyman, had his mind more constantly full of divine
thoughts than most priests; though no technical scholar perhaps, he kept up his Greek to read
Plato, and did not think that his enjoyment of the works of high reach in classical times unfitted
him for Bible studies, which were the chief object of his existence.

       *       *       *       *       *
THOMAS ERSKINE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     127 George Street, 19th Oct. 1869.

     Dear Dean--I return you many thanks for that kind letter.
     Neither you nor I can now be far from death--that commonest
     of all events, and yet the most unknown. The majority of
     those with whom you and I have been acquainted, have passed
     through it, but their experience does not help us except by
     calling us to prepare for it. One man indeed--the Head and
     Lord of men--has risen from the dead, thereby declaring death
     overcome, and inviting us all to share in his victory. And
     yet we feel that the victory over death cannot deliver us
     from fear, unless there be also a victory over that which
     makes death terrible--a victory over him that hath the power
     of death, that is the devil, or prince and principle of sin.
     And our Lord has achieved this also, for he put away sin by
     the sacrifice of himself; but this sacrifice can only really
     profit us when it is reproduced in us--when we, as branches
     of the true Vine, live by the sap of the root, which sap is
     filial trust, the only principle which can sacrifice
     self, because the only principle which can enable us to
     commit ourselves unreservedly into the hands of God for
     guidance and for disposal. We are thus put right by trust,
     justified or put right by faith in the loving fatherly
     righteous purpose of God towards us.

     Dear George Dundas's death has taken from me my chief social
     support in Edinburgh. I was fourteen years his senior, but I
     had known and loved him from his childhood. Our mothers were
     sisters, and thus we had the same family ties and traditions.
     I think of him now in connection with that verse, "to those
     who by patient continuance in well-doing," etc.

     And now farewell. Let us seek to live by the faith of the Son
     of God--his filial trust I suppose, which I so much
     need.--Ever truly and gratefully yours,

     T. ERSKINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The three following letters hardly help on the story of the Dean's life, but I could not pass
them when they came into my hands.

The writer is Adam Sedgwick, the well-known Cambridge Professor and Philosopher. In another
capacity he was still better known. He was tutor and vice-master of Trinity, and in his time
an outside stranger of any education, even a half-educated Scot, dropping into Cambridge society,
found a reception to be remembered. Take for choice one of their peculiar festivals--Trinity
Sunday comes to my mind--the stranger partook of the splendid feast in that princely hall of
Trinity, where the massive college plate was arrayed and the old college customs of welcome
used, not from affectation, but kindly reverence. When the dinner was over, the large party
of Doctors and Fellows, with hundreds of the noble youth of England, all in surplice, moved
to the chapel, all joining with reverence in the august service of the church, and later, they
and their guests, or as many as could be held, crossed to the Combination Room, where Sedgwick
filled the chair, and led the conversation, not to glorify himself, not to display his own
powers, which were great, but to let his guests know among whom they were placed--philosophers,
first men of science, first scholars, leaders in all kinds of learning, meeting in a noble
equality, proud to meet under his presidency--that I take to be the highest triumph of civilised
hospitality. At the time of these letters the philosopher is old, but vigorous in mind, and
even gay at the age of eighty-eight.

The death of Bishop Terrot called forth the following letter from the venerable Professor:--

       *       *       *       *       *

     PROFESSOR SEDGWICK to the Rev. Mr. MALCOLM.

     Trinity College, Cambridge, May 1, 1872.

     Dear Mr. Malcolm--I had been previously informed of the death
     of my dear old friend, the Bishop of Edinburgh, but I am very
     grateful to you for thinking so kindly of me, and for
     communicating particulars about which I was not acquainted
     previously. Accept my expressions of true-hearted sympathy,
     and pray impart them to the surviving members of dear Bishop
     Terrot's family. He was an old, an honoured and beloved
     friend; God laid upon his old age an unusual load of the
     labours and sorrows of humanity, but they are over now, and
     he has reached his haven of shelter from external sorrow and
     his true and enduring home of joy and peace, in the presence
     of his Maker and Redeemer. I am very infirm, and am affected
     by an internal malady, which, through the past winter, has
     confined me to my college rooms, but I have to thank my Maker
     for thousands of little comforts to mind and body, by which
     I am hourly surrounded, and for His long-suffering in
     extending my probation till I have entered on my 88th year.
     My eyes are dim-sighted and irritable, so that I generally
     dictate my letters; now, however, I am using my own pen to
     express my thanks to you, in this time of your sorrow for the
     loss of one so nearly and dearly connected with your clerical
     life. My memory is not much shaken, except in recalling names
     not very familiar to me, and I think (with the painful
     exception I have alluded to) that my constitutional health is
     sound. When my friends call upon me, my deafness generally
     compels me to use an ear-trumpet, and I yesterday took it to
     our college walks, to try if I could catch the notes of the
     singing birds, which were piping all round me. But, alas! I
     could not hear the notes of the singing birds, though I did
     catch the harsher and louder notes of the rooks, which have
     their nests in some college grounds.

     May the remaining years of your life be cheered and animated
     by good abiding Christian hope.--I remain very faithfully
     yours, ADAM SEDGWICK.

       *       *       *       *       *

     PROFESSOR SEDGWICK to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Trinity College, Cambridge,

     29th May 1872.

     My dear Dean--I this morning received your kind presentation
     copy of your Reminiscences, which I shall highly value for
     its own sake, and as your gift. I read little now because my
     eyes are both dim-sighted and very irritable; but your book
     will just suit me, as it is not a continuous tale, but a
     succession of tales, each of which is perfect in itself, and
     I hope to read it bit by bit without worrying my enfeebled
     powers of sight.

     I meant to have thanked you in an autograph, but there has
     been a sudden change in the atmosphere, which is dark, heavy
     and wet, and when there is a defect of light I am almost
     constrained to dictate my letters to my factotum.

     I am delighted, too, with the single sheet containing verses
     addressed to yourself. The first copy by Bishop Wordsworth
     appears to me quite admirable from the beauty and simplicity
     of his Latin; and the other copies are good in their way.

     I dare say you have seen the short verses he wrote on the
     death of his first wife. They are of Roman brevity and of
     exquisite tenderness.

     One of the very pleasant days of my life was spent in a visit
     to the small country living of Mr. Dawes of Downing,
     afterwards Dean of Hereford. Your late brother was one of the
     happy party. We returned together to Cambridge at a rattling
     pace, and I am not sure that I ever saw his face afterwards,
     for very soon he had a bilious attack which induced him to
     seek health in his native country, and, alas! he sought it in
     vain, for he sickened and died, to the deep sorrow of all his
     friends.--I remain, my dear Dean, very truly and
     gratefully yours,

     A. SEDGWICK.

     My dear Mr. Malcolm--The infirmity of my sight compels me to
     dictate this letter to one who often writes for me. Such a
     bright day as this, and while the sun is shining, I could see
     the traces of my pen upon a sheet of paper; but the act of
     writing greatly fatigues me, and I dictate nearly all
     my letters.

     I very much value your melancholy memorial of my late dear
     and honoured friend, the late Bishop Terrot. Though the photo
     represents our late friend the bishop with his features
     shrouded in the cold fixity of death, yet it does bring back
     the original to the memory of those who knew him well, and I
     am greatly obliged to you for this memorial of one who has
     gone from our sight for ever, so far as this world is
     concerned. It was very kind of you to remember the photo.

     I did not know Bishop Cotterell intimately, but I have met
     him many times, and I think you very happy in obtaining the
     services of a man of such experience, talent, and zeal, in
     the good cause of Christian truth.

     I am now a very feeble, infirm, old man, toiling in the last
     quarter of my 88th year. I ought to be thankful that my mind,
     though feeble, remains entire: my memory is often defective,
     but I have been enabled, though with great labour to myself,
     and with many interruptions, to dictate a preface to a
     catalogue published by the university of the older fossils of
     our collection. They have kindly printed and given to me some
     extra copies of my preface, one of which I will forward to
     you by the book-post.

     I know it can have no interest to you, excepting, perhaps, a
     few paragraphs in the conclusion of only two or three
     pages.--I remain, my dear Mr. Malcolm, very faithfully and
     gratefully yours, A. SEDGWICK.

I have printed already more than one letter from the Rev. D.T.K. Drummond, from admiration
of their intrinsic merit, and because I wish here to collect proofs that no diversity of Church
rites or Church policy could separate our Dean from brethren whom he regarded perhaps as erroneous,
but recognised as teaching and leading by the same principles of freedom, which he himself
revered and followed.

     Rev. D.T.K. DRUMMOND to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Montpelier, Saturday.

     My dear Friend--Very many thanks for your most touching note,
     and for the extract from your book you so kindly sent me. The
     more I look into it the more I like it, and thank God for
     the testimony you so unequivocally and fearlessly hear to the
     unity of the True Church of Christ of any age, however much
     the great army he made up of various sections, of diverse
     uniforms, and with special duties to perform.....

     Again thanking you very warmly, and earnestly praying for all
     the precious consolations of the Great Head of the Church to
     be largely vouchsafed to you, believe me to be always most
     affectionately yours,

     D. T. K. DRUMMOND.

     My dear Dean Ramsay--I have just read with most profound
     thankfulness and admiration your noble Christian letter in
     this day's Scotsman. I cannot deny myself the gratification
     of expressing my feelings to you in this feeble
     acknowledgment. You have done a signal service to the cause
     of our Blessed Lord and common Master. I am too infirm to
     write more fully all that is in my heart. You will pardon all
     defects, and believe me, yours very truly,

     ROB. S. CANDLISH.

The letter referred to by the distinguished divine arose out of what is known in the Scottish
Episcopal Church as the cause celèbre of the Bishop of Glasgow against the Bishop of Argyll.

The Rev. Dr. Caird, of the University of Glasgow, having invited the Bishop of Argyll to preach
to a mixed Episcopalian and Presbyterian congregation, using his Church's liturgy, from the
University pulpit of Glasgow, the Bishop of Glasgow interposed to prevent it.

The interference of the Bishop of Glasgow with his brother prelate of Argyll called forth a
letter from Dean Ramsay, which appeared in the Scottish Guardian on 15th March 1872, and in
the Scotsman three days later. In it the Dean in fact asserts a religious sympathy towards
those who differ from him, comprehensive enough to include all his Protestant countrymen.

"In an address to the Bishop of Glasgow, signed by sixty-two clergymen, it is stated that the
service contemplated in the chapel of the University of Glasgow would be a 'lax proceeding,
and fraught with great injury to the highest interests of the Church,' Accordingly the Bishop
of Glasgow prohibited the service, to guard the Church from complicity in a measure which he
considered subversive of her position in this country.' In other words," says Dean Ramsay,
"we are called upon to believe that, as members of the Scottish Episcopal Church, it is our
bounden duty to withhold every appearance of any religious sympathy with our Presbyterian fellow-countrymen
and fellow-Christians. I now solemnly declare for myself that, had I come to the conclusion
that such was the teaching of our Church, and such the views to which I was bound--viz. that
her object was thus to sever man from man, and to maintain that the service proposed at Glasgow
was really 'fraught with great injury to the highest interests of my Church,' because it would
promote union and peace--the sun should not again set till I had given up all official connection
with a Church of which the foundations and the principles would be so different from the landmarks
and leading manifestations of our holy faith itself. Were the principles and conduct laid down
in this address and in the answer to it fairly carried out, I cannot see any other result than
the members of our Church considering the whole of Scotland which is external to our communion
as a land of infidels, with whom we can have no spiritual connection, and whom, indeed, we
could hardly recognise as a Christian people."

The Dean's letter is chiefly remarkable as showing that age had not frozen his charity. It
called forth many letters like that of Dr. Candlish, and one from the little Somersetshire
society which he loved so well.

     JOHN SHEPPARD, Esq., Frome, to DEAN RAMSAY.

     The Cottage, Frome, 21st March 1872.

     Very dear and reverend Sir--I have to thank you for the
     Scottish Guardian which you have kindly sent me. I regret
     the divisions which appear to have arisen in your church.
     Whatever comes from your pen has special interest for me; and
     I am glad to see it (as it always has been) pleading the
     cause of Christian charity. It appears to me that the welfare
     of your church would have been promoted by acceding to the
     invitation,

     I think I have mentioned to you that we had lately a visit
     from good Archdeacon Sandford, which we much enjoyed. We
     learn with sorrow that since attendance at the Convocation
     and a stay at Lambeth Palace, he has been suffering great
     weakness and exhaustion, and been confined to his bed for a
     month. He is now slowly recovering; but we fear his
     exertions have been beyond his strength, and that his life
     must be very precarious.

     I hope your health is not more seriously impaired; but we
     must be looking more and more, dear sir, towards the home
     which pain and strife cannot enter.

     My beloved Susan is very zealous as the animals' friend, and
     birds of many sorts welcome and solicit her as their
     patroness. She desires to be most kindly remembered to you,
     with, my dear Dean, your attached old friend,

     JOHN SHEPPARD.

     P.S.--Susan instructs me to say for her that, "since
     reading your letter to the Guardian, she loves you more
     than ever, if possible." My words are cool in comparison with
     hers; and this is a curious message for an ancient husband
     to convey.

     She thinks we have not thanked you for the Bishop's Latin
     verses and the translations of them. If we have not, it is
     not because our "reminiscences" of you are faint or few.

I wish to preserve a note of a dear old friend of my own, whose talents, perhaps I might say
whose genius, was only shrouded by his modesty. I know that the Dean felt how gratifying it
was to find among his congregation men of such accomplishment, such scholarship, as George
Moir and George Dundas, and it is something to show that they responded very heartily to that
feeling.

     GEORGE MOIR to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Monday morning, 14 Charlotte Square.

     My dear Dean--My condition renders it frequently impossible
     to attend church, from the difficulty I have in remaining for
     any length of time. But I have been able to be present the
     last two Sundays, and I cannot refrain from saying with how
     much pleasure I listened yesterday to your discourse on
     charity. It was not unworthy of the beautiful passage which
     formed its ground-work; clear, consecutive, eloquent, and
     with a moral application of which I wish we may all avail
     ourselves.

     Long may you continue to advise and instruct those who are
     to come after me.

     I was delighted to see you looking so well, and to notice the
     look of vigour with which the discourse was delivered.
     Believe me ever most truly yours, GEO. MOIR.

In 1866 the Dean had delivered two lectures upon "Preachers and Preaching," but which were
afterwards published in a volume called Pulpit Table-Talk. That is the subject of the following
letter from a great master of the art:--

     Dr. GUTHRIE to DEAN RAMSAY.

     Inchgrundle, Tarfside, by Brechin,

     31st August 1868.

     My dear Mr. Dean--Your Pulpit Table-Talk has been sent here
     to gratify, delight, and edify me. A most entertaining book;
     and full of wise and admirable sentiments. All ministers and
     preachers should read and digest it. Age seems to have no
     more dulling effect on you than it had on Sir David Brewster,
     who retained, after he had turned the threescore and ten, all
     the greenery, foliage, and flowers of youth--presenting at
     once the freshness of Spring, and the flowers of Summer, and
     the precious fruits of Autumn.

     May your bow long abide in strength! and the evening of your
     days be calm and peaceful, bright with the sure and certain
     hope of that better world, where, I hope, we shall meet to be
     for ever with the Lord! With the greatest respect and
     affectionate regards, yours ever,

     THOMAS GUTHRIE.

I cannot fix the date of the following anecdote, nor does the date much matter:--Some years
ago a child, the son of the U.P. minister of Dunblane, was so dangerously ill, that a neighbouring
lady, the wife of the Episcopal clergyman, who was much interested in the little boy, asked
her husband if it might be permitted to beg the prayers of the congregation for his recovery.
The clergyman readily assented; and when the facts came to the knowledge of Dean Ramsay, and
that it was a suggestion of a dear friend of his, he sent the lady a copy of his Reminiscences,
with a letter to her husband, in which he says--"I was greatly charmed with your account of
prayers offered up for poor little Blair. Tell your Mary I love her more than ever. It has
quite affected me, her proposing it." The husband is the Rev. Mr. Malcolm; the lady his wife,
daughter of the Dean's dear friend, Bishop Terrot.

But the end was approaching. In December 1872 it was noticed with sorrow that for the first
time since the commencement of the Church Society (1838), of which Ramsay was really the founder,
the Dean was absent from the annual meeting of the general committee. Soon it became known
that his illness was more than a mere passing attack. During its continuance the deepest interest
was manifested in every quarter. Each day, and "almost from hour to hour, the latest tidings
were eagerly sought for. In many churches and in many families besides those of our communion,
prayers were offered for his recovery. And when at last it became known that he had indeed
passed away from this life, it was felt that we had lost not only a venerable Father of the
Church, but one whose name, familiar as a household word, was always associated with kindly
loving thoughts and deeds--one who was deservedly welcome wherever he went, and whose influence
was always towards peace and goodwill." The Rev. Mr. Montgomery, our present Dean of Edinburgh,
whose words I quote, truly says that "he was a Churchman by conviction, but was ever ready
to meet, and, where occasion offered, to act with others upon the basis of a common humanity
and common Christianity."

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The margin seems to show that this page of the journal was not written till 1843.

[10] The Bishop said that the two impediments to profitable or amusing conversation were humdrum
and humbug.

On another occasion, the Bishop having expressed his doubt of the truth of spirit-rapping,
table-turning, etc., and being pressed with the appeal, "Surely you must admit these are indications
of Satanic agency," quietly answered, "It may be so, but it must be a mark of Satan being in
a state of dotage!"

[11] Alluditur ad titulum libri Reminiscences, etc.

[12] Here is the passage referred to by Mr. Dickens:--"There are persons who do not sympathise
with my great desire to preserve and to disseminate these specimens of Scottish humour; indeed,
I have reasons to suspect that some have been disposed to consider the time and attention which
I have given to the subject as ill-bestowed, or at any rate, as somewhat unsuitable to one
of my advanced age and sacred profession. If any persons do really think so, all I can say
is, I do not agree with them. National peculiarities must ever form an interesting and improving
study, inasmuch as it is a study of human nature; and the anecdotes of this volume all tend
to illustrate features of the Scottish mind, which, as moral and religious traits of character,
are deeply interesting. I am convinced that every one, whether clergyman or layman, who contributes
to the innocent enjoyment of human life, has joined in a good work, inasmuch as he has diminished
the inducement to vicious indulgence. God knows there is enough of sin and of sorrow in the
world to make sad the heart of every Christian man. No one, I think, need be ashamed of his
endeavours to cheer the darker hours of his fellow-travellers' steps through life, or to beguile
the hearts of the weary and the heavy laden, if only for a time, into cheerful and amusing
trains of thought. So far as my experience of life goes, I have never found that the cause
of morality and religion was promoted by sternly checking the tendencies of our nature to relaxation
and amusement. If mankind be too ready to enter upon pleasures which are dangerous or questionable,
it is the part of wisdom and of prudence to supply them with sources of interest, the enjoyment
of which are innocent and permissible."

APPENDIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

When this Memoir was only begun I was anxious to say something of the Dean's musical powers;
and, not venturing to speak of music myself, I asked the Dean's sister Lady Burnett to supply
my deficiency. In reply I had the following letter:--

     22d February 1873.

     ... As a flute-player the Dean attained a proficiency rarely
     seen in an amateur, and used frequently to play the very
     difficult flute-obligatos of some of Handel's songs, which
     are considered a hard task even for professionals. Besides
     playing the flute he was thoroughly conversant with the
     mechanism of the organ, and had some knowledge of the
     violoncello, though he never gave much time to the study of
     that instrument. But perhaps the most interesting point in
     this part of the character of my brother was his ardent love
     for Handel's music. There was not a song or chorus of the
     great master that he was not acquainted with, and in his
     younger days he used to sing the bass music from the Messiah
     and other Oratorios with great taste and skill--his voice, a
     fine mellow baritone, being well suited to these songs. You
     may remember his lectures on Handel delivered at the
     Philosophical Institution some years ago, and how
     enthusiastic he was when describing the manifold beauties of
     his favourite composer, and how interested and eager he
     became when the choir sang the music he knew and loved
     so well....

     I wrote this on Saturday evening when sitting alone,
     thinking of the great loss I had sustained; the variety there
     was in Edward's character; how accomplished he was; what
     knowledge he had on many subjects; his fine taste, his
     gentleness and Christian piety; and then his strong sense of
     humour and fun; how amusing he was, and such droll things
     broke out every now and then! even to the very last so genial
     and social, and altogether such a man that we "ne'er shall
     look upon his like again."--Yours very sincerely, LAUDERDALE
     BURNETT.

REMINISCENCES.

PREFACE

TO

TWENTY-SECOND EDITION.

In preparing another duodecimo edition of the "Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character,"
I gladly avail myself of the opportunity afforded me of reproducing some of the materials which
had been added to the octavo edition, especially that part at page 322, etc., which advocated
a modified interchange of pulpits between Episcopalian and Presbyterian clergymen; to add also
some excellent Scottish stories which had been sent to me by kind friends. I am desirous also
of repeating the correction of an error into which we had fallen in copying the account of
a toast in the Highland form, which had been kindly contributed by the respected minister of
Moulin, in the octavo edition at page 70. To Lowland conceptions, the whole proceeding has
somewhat the appearance of a respectable company at once becoming insane; still it ought to
be correct, and the printer had, by mistake, inserted a word that has no existence in the Gaelic
language. The text reads--

     "Lud ris! Lud ris! You again! you again!"

It should be

     Sud ris! Sud ris! Yon again! yon again!

that is--"you cheer again."

The demand for a twenty-second edition of a volume of "Scottish Reminiscences" embracing subjects
which are necessarily of a limited and local character--a demand which has taken place during
the course of little more than fifteen years since its first publication--proves, I think,
the correctness of the idea upon which it was first undertaken--viz. that it should depict
a phase of national manners which was fast passing away, and thus, in however humble a department,
contribute something to the materials of history, by exhibiting social customs and habits of
thought which at a particular era were characteristic of a race. It may perhaps be very fairly
said that the Reminiscences came out at a time specially suitable to rescue these features
of national life and character from oblivion. They had begun to fade away, and many had, to
the present generation, become obsolete.

To those who have not given their attention to the subject for the elucidation of which this
volume has been written, I would present two specimens of the sort of materials from which
they may expect to find these Reminiscences are compiled. They are chosen to indicate a style
of life and manners now fast fading away, and are taken from a period which lies within the
scope of our own recollections. Now, a subject like this can only be illustrated by a copious
application of anecdotes which must show the features of the past. And let me premise that
I make use of anecdotes not for the purpose of telling a good story, but solely in the way
of illustration. I am quite certain that there was an originality, a dry and humorous mode
of viewing persons and events, quite peculiar to the older Scottish characters. And I am equally
certain, that their peculiar humour can only be exhibited in examples. From the late Mr. Erskine
of Linlathan I received the following:--Mr. Erskine recollected an old housekeeper at Airth,
who belonged to this class of character. A speech of this Mrs. Henderson was preserved in the
family as having been made by her at the time of the execution of Louis XVI. in 1793. She was
noticing the violent emotion exhibited by Mr. Bruce of Kinnaird, the Abyssinian traveller,
at the sad event which had just taken place, and added, in the following quaint and caustic
terms, "There's Kinnaird greeting as if there was nae a saunt on earth but himsel' and the
king o' France." How utterly unlike anything that would be said on such an occasion by an English
person in the same position in life!

For the same purpose, let me introduce a characteristic little Scottish scene, which my cousin,
the late Sir Thomas Burnett of Leys, used to describe with great humour. Sir Thomas had a tenant
on his estate, a very shrewd clever man, whom he was sometimes in the habit of consulting about
country matters. On one occasion he came over to Crathes Castle, and asked to see Sir Thomas.
He was accordingly ushered in, accompanied by a young man of very simple appearance, who gazed
about the room in a stupid vacant manner. The old man began by saying that he understood there
was a farm on the estate to be let, and that he knew a very fine young man whom he wished to
recommend as tenant. He said he had plenty of siller, and had studied farming on the most approved
principles--sheep-farming in the Highlands, cattle-farming in the Lowlands, and so forth, and,
in short, was a model farmer. When he had finished his statement, Sir Thomas, looking very
significantly at his companion, addressed the old man (as he was usually addressed in the county
by the name of his farm)--"Well, Drummy, and is this your friend whom you propose for the farm?"
to which Drummy replied, "Oh fie, na. Hout! that is a kind o' a Feel, a friend (i.e. a relation)
o' the wife's, and I just brought him ower wi' me to show him the place."

The question of change in the "life and character" of a people, during the period embraced
in the reminiscences of an aged individual, must always be a subject for deep and serious consideration.
In the case of Scotland, such changes comprise much that is interesting and amusing. But they
also contain much matter for serious thought and reflection to the lovers of their country.
In preparing the present edition of these Reminiscences, I have marked out many further changes,
and have marked them from a deep feeling of interest in the moral and religious improvement
of my country. To my readers I say that I hope we have all learned to view such changes under
a more serious national aspect than a mere question of amusement or speculation. The Christian,
when he looks around him on society, must observe many things which, as a patriot, he wishes
might be permanent, and he marks many things which, as a patriot, he wishes were obliterated.
What he desires should be enduring in his countrymen is, that abiding attributes of Scottish
character should be associated amongst all men with truth and virtue--with honour and kindly
feelings--with temperance and self-denial--with divine faith and love--with generosity and
benevolence. On the other hand, he desires that what may become questions of tradition, and,
in regard to his own land, REMINISCENCES of Scottish life, shall be--cowardice and folly, deceit
and fraud, the low and selfish motives to action which make men traitors to their God and hateful
to their fellow-men.

It would be worse than affectation--it would be ingratitude--to disclaim being deeply impressed
by the favourable reception which has for so long a time been given to these Reminiscences
at home, in India, in America, and in all countries where Scotchmen are to be found.

It is not the least of the enjoyments which I have had in compiling these pages, to hear of
the kind sympathy which they have called forth in other minds, and often in the minds of strangers;
and it would be difficult for me to describe the pleasure I have received when told by a friend
that this work had cheered him in the hour of depression or of sickness--that even for a few
moments it may have beguiled the weight of corroding care and worldly anxiety. I have been
desirous of saying a word in favour of old Scottish life; and with some minds, perhaps, the
book may have promoted a more kindly feeling towards hearts and heads of bygone days. And certainly
I can now truly say, that my highest reward--my greatest honour and gratification--would spring
from the feeling that it might become a standard volume in Scottish cottage libraries, and
that by the firesides of Scotland these pages might become as Household Words.

     EDINBURGH, 23 AINSLIE PLACE.
     St. Andrew's Day[13]

FOOTNOTES:

[13] These words, "St. Andrew's Day," were deleted by the Dean; and though he lived till the
27th December, he did not touch the proof-sheets after the 19th November 1872.

REMINISCENCES

OF

SCOTTISH LIFE AND CHARACTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

INTRODUCTORY.

I wish my readers always to bear in mind that these Reminiscences are meant to bear upon the
changes which would include just such a revolution as that referred to at page 15 in the bonnet
practice of Laurencekirk. There is no pretension to any researches of antiquarian character;
they are in fact Reminiscences which come almost within personal recognition. A kind friend
gave me anecdotes of the past in her hundredth year. In early life I was myself consigned to
the care of my grand-uncle, Sir Alexander Ramsay, residing in Yorkshire, and he was born in
1715; so that I can go pretty far back on my own experience, and have thus become cognisant
of many changes which might be expected as a consequence of such experience.

I cannot imagine a better illustration of the sort of change in the domestic relations of life
that has taken place in something like the time we speak of, than is shown in the following
anecdote, which was kindly communicated to me by Professor MacGregor of the Free Church. I
have pleasure in giving it in the Professor's own words:--"I happened one day to be at Panmure
Castle when Lord Panmure (now Dalhousie) was giving a treat to a school, and was presented
by the Monikie Free Church Deacons' Court with a Bible on occasion of his having cleared them
finally of debt on their buildings. Afterwards his Lordship took me into the library, where,
among other treasures, we found a handsome folio Prayer Book presented to his ancestor Mr.
Maule of Kelly by the Episcopalian minister of the district, on occasion of his having, by
Mr. Maule's help, been brought out of jail. The coincidence and contrast were curiously interesting."

For persons to take at various intervals a retrospective view of life, and of the characters
they have met with, seems to be a natural feeling of human nature; and every one is disposed
at times to recall to memory many circumstances and many individuals which suggest abundant
subjects for reflection. We thus find recollections of scenes in which we have been joyous
and happy. We think of others with which we only associate thoughts of sorrow and of sadness.
Amongst these varied emotions we find subjects for reminiscences, of which we would bury the
feelings in our own hearts as being too sacred for communication with others. Then, again,
there are many things of the past concerning which we delight to take counsel with friends
and contemporaries. Some persons are disposed to go beyond these personal communications with
friends, and having through life been accustomed to write down memoranda of their own feelings,
have published them to the world. Many interesting works have thus been contributed to our
literature by writers who have sent forth volumes in the form of Memoirs of their Own Times,
Personal Recollections, Remarks upon Past Scenes, etc. etc. It is not within the scope of this
work to examine these, nor can I specify the many communications I have from different persons,
both at home and in our colonial possessions; in fact, the references in many cases have been
lost or mislaid. But I must acknowledge, however briefly, my obligations to Dr. Carruthers,
Inverness, and to Dr. Cook, Haddington, who have favoured me with valuable contributions.

Now, when we come to examine the general question of memoirs connected with contemporary history,
no work is better known in connection with this department of Scottish literature than the
History of his Own Times, by my distinguished relative, Dr. Gilbert Burnett, Bishop of Salisbury.
Bishop Burnett's father, Lord Crimond, was third son of my father's family, the Burnetts of
Leys, in Kincardineshire. There is now at Crathes Castle, the family seat, a magnificent full-length
portrait of the Bishop in his robes, as Prelate of the Garter, by Sir Godfrey Kneller. It was
presented by himself to the head of his family. But, as one great object of the Bishop's history
was to laud and magnify the personal character and public acts of William of Orange, his friend
and patron, and as William was held in special abhorrence by the Jacobite party in Scotland,
the Bishop holds a prominent, and, with many, a very odious position in Scottish Reminiscences;
in fact, he drew upon himself and upon his memory the determined hatred and unrelenting hostility
of adherents to the Stuart cause. They never failed to abuse him on all occasions, and I recollect
old ladies in Montrose, devoted to the exiled Prince, with whom the epithet usually applied
to the Prelate was that of "Leein' Gibby[14]."

Such language has happily become a "Reminiscence." Few would be found now to apply such an
epithet to the author of the History of his Own Times, and certainly it would not be applied
on the ground of the Jacobite principles to which he was opposed. But a curious additional
proof of this hostility of Scottish Jacobites to the memory of Burnett has lately come to light.
In a box of political papers lately found at Brechin Castle, belonging to the Panmure branch
of the family, who, in '15, were forfeited on the ground of their Jacobite opinions and adherence
to the cause of Charles Edward, there has been found a severe and bitter supposed epitaph for
Bishop Burnett. By the kindness of the Earl of Dalhousie I was permitted to see this epitaph,
and, if I chose, to print it in this edition. I am, however, unwilling to stain my pages with
such an ungenerous and, indeed, I may say, so scurrilous a representation of the character
of one who, in the just opinion of our Lyon King-at-Arms, himself a Burnett of the Kemnay branch,
has characterised the Bishop of Salisbury as "true and honest, and far beyond the standard
of his times as a Clergyman and as a Bishop." But the epitaph found in these Panmure papers
shows clearly the prejudices of the age in which it was written, and in fact only embodies
something of that spirit and of those opinions which we have known as still lingering in our
own Reminiscences.

If it were not on my part a degree of presumption, I might be inclined to consider myself in
this volume a fellow-labourer with the late accomplished and able Mr. Robert Chambers. In a
very limited sphere it takes a portion of the same field of illustration. I should consider
myself to have done well if I shall direct any of my readers to his able volumes. Whosoever
wishes to know what this country really was in times past, and to learn, with a precision beyond
what is supplied by the narratives of history, the details of the ordinary current of our social,
civil, and national life, must carefully study the Domestic Annals of Scotland. Never before
were a nation's domestic features so thoroughly portrayed. Of those features the specimens
of quaint Scottish humour still remembered are unlike anything else, but they are fast becoming
obsolete, and my motive for this publication has been an endeavour to preserve marks of the
past which would of themselves soon become obliterated, and to supply the rising generation
with pictures of social life, faded and indistinct to their eyes, but the strong lines of which
an older race still remember. By thus coming forward at a favourable moment, no doubt many
beautiful specimens of SCOTTISH MINSTRELSY have in this manner been preserved from oblivion
by the timely exertions of Bishop Percy, Ritson, Walter Scott, and others. Lord Macaulay, in
his preface to The Lays of Ancient Rome, shows very powerfully the tendency in all that lingers
in the memory to become obsolete, and he does not hesitate to say that "Sir Walter Scott was
but just in time to save the precious relics of the minstrelsy of the Border."

It is quite evident that those who have in Scotland come to an advanced age, must have found
some things to have been really changed about them, and that on them great alterations have
already taken place. There are some, however, which yet may be in a transition state; and others
in which, although changes are threatened, still it cannot be said that the changes are begum
I have been led to a consideration of impending alterations as likely to take place, by the
recent appearance of two very remarkable and very interesting papers on subjects closely connected
with great social Scottish questions, where a revolution of opinion may be expected. These
are two articles in Recess Studies (1870), a volume edited by our distinguished Principal,
Sir Alexander Grant. One essay is by Sir Alexander himself, upon the "Endowed Hospitals of
Scotland;" the other by the Rev. Dr. Wallace of the Greyfriars, upon "Church Tendencies in
Scotland." It would be quite irrelevant for me to enlarge here upon the merits of those articles.
No one could study them attentively without being impressed with the ability and power displayed
in them by the authors, their grasp of the subjects, and their fair impartial judgment upon
the various questions which come under their notice.

From these able disquisitions, and from other prognostics, it is quite evident that sounder
principles of political economy and accurate experience of human life show that much of the
old Scottish hospital system was quite wrong and must be changed. Changes are certainly going
on, which seem to indicate that the very hard Presbyterian views of some points connected with
Church matters are in transition. I have elsewhere spoken of a past sabbatarian strictness,
and I have lately received an account of a strictness in observing the national fast-day, or
day appointed for preparation in celebrating Holy Communion, which has in some measure passed
away. The anecdote adduced the example of two drovers who were going on very quietly together.
They had to pass through a district whereof one was a parishioner, and during their progress
through it the one whistled with all his might, the other screwed up his mouth without emitting
a single sound. When they came to a burn, the silent one, on then crossing the stream, gave
a skip, and began whistling with all his might, exclaiming with great triumph to his companion,
"I'm beyond the parish of Forfar now, and I'll whistle as muckle as I like." It happened to
be the Forfar parish fast-day. But a still stricter observance was shown by a native of Kirkcaldy,
who, when asked by his companion drover in the south of Scotland "why he didna whistle," quietly
answered, "I canna, man; it's our fast-day in Kirkcaldy." I have an instance of a very grim
assertion of extreme sabbatarian zeal. A maid-servant had come to a new place, and on her mistress
quietly asking her on Sunday evening to wash up some dishes, she indignantly replied, "Mem,
I hae dune mony sins, and hae mony sins to answer for; but, thank God, I hae never been sae
far left to mysell as to wash up dishes on the Sabbath day."

I hope it will not for a moment be supposed we would willingly throw any ridicule or discouragement
on the Scottish national tendencies on the subject, or that we are not proud of Scotland's
example of a sacred observance of the fourth commandment in the letter and the spirit. We refer
now to injudicious extremes, such, indeed, as our Lord condemned, and which seem a fair subject
for notice amongst Scottish peculiarities. But the philosophy of the question is curious. Scotland
has ever made her boast of the simplest form of worship, and a worship free from ceremonial,
more even than the Church of England, which is received as, in doctrine and ritual, the Church
of the Reformation. In some respects, therefore, may you truly say the only standing recognised
observance in the ceremonial part of Presbyterian worship is the Sabbath day--an observance
which has been pushed in times past even beyond the extreme of a spirit of Judaism, as if the
sabbatical ceremonial were made a substitute for all other ceremony. In this, as well as in
other matters which we have pointed out, what changes have taken place, what changes are going
on! It may be difficult to assign precise causes for such changes having taken place among
us, and that during the lifetime of individuals now living to remember them. It has been a
period for many changes in manners, habits, and forms of language, such as we have endeavoured
to mark in this volume. The fact of such changes is indisputable, and sometimes it is difficult
not only to assign the causes for them, but even to describe in what the changes themselves
consist. They are gradual, and almost imperceptible. Scottish people lose their Scotchness;
they leave home, and return without those expressions and intonations, and even peculiarity
of voice and manner, which used to distinguish us from Southern neighbours. In all this, I
fear, we lose our originality. It has not passed away, but with every generation becomes less
like the real type.

I would introduce here a specimen of the precise sort of changes to which I would refer, as
an example of the reminiscences intended to be introduced into these pages. We have in earlier
editions given an account of the pains taken by Lord Gardenstone to extend and improve his
rising village of Laurencekirk; amongst other devices he had brought down, as settlers, a variety
of artificers and workmen from England. With these he had introduced a hatter from Newcastle;
but on taking him to church next day after his arrival, the poor man saw that he might decamp
without loss of time, as he could not expect much success in his calling at Laurencekirk; in
fact, he found Lord Gardenstone's and his own the only hats in the kirk--the men all wore then
the flat Lowland bonnet. But how quickly times change! My excellent friend, Mr. Gibbon of Johnstone,
Lord Gardenstone's own place, which is near Laurencekirk, tells me that at the present time
one solitary Lowland bonnet lingers in the parish.

Hats are said to have been first brought into Inverness by Duncan Forbes of Culloden, the Lord
President, who died in 1747. Forbes is reported to have presented the provost and bailies with
cocked hats, which they wore only on Sundays and council days. About 1760 a certain Deacon
Young began daily to wear a hat, and the country people crowding round him, the Deacon used
humorously to say, "What do you see about me, sirs? am I not a mortal man like yourselves?"
The broad blue bonnets I speak of long continued to be worn in the Highland capital, and are
still occasionally to be seen there, though generally superseded by the Glengarry bonnet and
ordinary hat. It is a minor change, but a very decided one.

The changes which have taken place, and which give rise to such "Reminiscences," are very numerous,
and meet us at every turn in society. Take, for example, the case of our Highland chieftains.
We may still retain the appellation, and talk of the chiefs of Clanranald, of Glengarry, etc.
But how different is a chieftain of the present day, even from some of those of whom Sir Walter
Scott wrote as existing so late as 1715 or 1745! Dr. Gregory (of immortal mixture memory) used
to tell a story of an old Highland chieftain, intended to show how such Celtic potentates were,
even in his day, still inclined to hold themselves superior to all the usual considerations
which affected ordinary mortals. The doctor, after due examination, had, in his usual decided
and blunt manner, pronounced the liver of a Highlander to be at fault, and to be the cause
of his ill-health. His patient, who could not but consider this as taking a great liberty with
a Highland chieftain, roared out--"And what the devil is it to you whether I have a liver or
not?" But there is the case of dignity in Lowland Lairds as well as clan-headship in Highland
Chiefs. In proof of this, I need only point to a practice still lingering amongst us of calling
landed proprietors, not as Mr. So-and-so, but by the names of their estates. I recollect, in
my early days, a number of our proprietors were always so designated. Thus, it was not as Mr.
Carnegie, Mr. Douglas, Mr. Irvine, etc., but as Craigo, Tillwhilly, Drum, etc.

An amusing application of such a territorial denominative system to the locality of London
was narrated to me by a friend who witnessed it. A Scottish gentleman, who had never been in
the metropolis, arrived fresh from the Highlands, and met a small party at the house of a London
friend. A person was present of most agreeable manners, who delighted the Scotsman exceedingly.
He heard the company frequently referring to this gentleman's residence in Piccadilly, to his
house in Piccadilly, and so on. When addressed by the gentleman, he commenced his reply, anxious
to pay him all due respect--"Indeed, Piccadilly," etc. He supposed Piccadilly must be his own
territorial locality. Another instance of mistake, arising out of Scottish ignorance of London
ways, was made by a North Briton on his first visit to the great city. He arrived at a hotel
in Fleet Street, where many of the country coaches then put up. On the following morning he
supposed that such a crowd as he encountered could only proceed from some "occasion," and must
pass off in due time. Accordingly, a friend from Scotland found him standing in a doorway,
as if waiting for some one. His countryman asked him what made him stand there. To which he
answered--"Ou, I was just stan'ing till the kirk had scaled." The ordinary appearance of his
native borough made the crowd of Fleet Street suggest to him the idea of a church crowd passing
out to their several homes, called in Scotland a "kirk scaling." A London street object called
forth a similar simple remark from a Scotsman. He had come to London on his way to India, and
for a few days had time to amuse himself by sight-seeing before his departure. He had been
much struck with the appearance of the mounted sentinels at the Horse Guards, Whitehall, and
bore them in remembrance during his Eastern sojourn. On his return, after a period of thirty
years, on passing the Horse Guards, he looked up to one, and seeing him, as he thought, unchanged
as to horse, position, and accoutrements, he exclaimed--"Od, freend, ye hae had a lang spell
on't sin' I left," supposing him to be the identical sentinel he had seen before he sailed.

It is interesting to preserve national peculiarities which are thus passing away from us. One
great pleasure I have had in their collection, and that is the numerous and sympathetic communications
I have received from Scotsmen, I may literally say from Scotsmen in all quarters of the world;
sometimes communicating very good examples of Scottish humour, and always expressing their
great pleasure in reading, when in distant lands and foreign scenes, anecdotes which reminded
them of Scotland, and of their ain days of "auld langsyne."

There is no mistaking the national attachment so strong in the Scottish character. Men return
after long absence, in this respect, unchanged; whilst absent, Scotsmen never forget their
Scottish home. In all varieties of lands and climates their hearts ever turn towards the "land
o' cakes and brither Scots." Scottish festivals are kept with Scottish feeling on "Greenland's
icy mountains" or "India's coral strand." I received an amusing account of an ebullition of
this patriotic feeling from my late noble friend the Marquis of Lothian, who met with it when
travelling in India. He happened to arrive at a station upon the eve of St. Andrew's Day, and
received an invitation to join a Scottish dinner party in commemoration of old Scotland. There
was a great deal of Scottish enthusiasm. There were seven sheep-heads (singed) down the table;
and Lord Lothian told me that after dinner he sang with great applause "The Laird o' Cockpen."

Another anecdote arising out of Scotsmen meeting in distant lands, is rather of a more serious
character, and used to be told with exquisite humour by the late lamented Dr. Norman Macleod.
A settler in Australia, who for a long time had heard nothing of his Scottish kith and kin,
was delighted at the arrival of a countryman direct from his own part of the country. When
he met with him, the following conversation took place between them:--Q. "Ye ken my fouk, friend;
can ye tell me gin my faather's alive?" A.--"Hout, na; he's deed." Q.--"Deed! What did he dee
o'? was it fever?" A.--"Na, it wasna fever." Q.--"Was it cholera?" A.--"Na." The question being
pressed, the stranger drily said, "Sheep," and then he accompanied the ominous word by delicately
and significantly pointing to the jugular under his ear. The man had been hanged for sheep-stealing!

It must always be amusing for Scotsmen to meet in distant lands, and there to play off on each
other the same dry, quaint humour which delighted them in their native land, and in their early
days at home. An illustration of this remark has been communicated by a kind correspondent
at Glasgow. Mrs. Hume, a true Scot, sends me the following dialogue, accompanied by a very
clever etching of the parties, from the Melbourne Punch, August 17, 1871, headed "Too Poor,--Night
of Waverley Concert."

Southron.--You here, Mac! you ought to have been at the concert, you know. Aren't you one of
the 'Scots wha hae?'

Mac.--Indeed no. I'm are o' the Scots wha hae na, or I wadna be here the nicht.

He would not have stayed at home if he had been one of the "Scots wha hae."

I am assured that the genuineness of the following anecdote is unquestionable, as my informant
received it from the person to whom it occurred. A popular Anglican Nonconformist minister
was residing with a family in Glasgow while on a visit to that city, whither he had gone on
a deputation from the Wesleyan Missionary Society. After dinner, in reply to an invitation
to partake of some fine fruit, he mentioned to the family a curious circumstance concerning
himself--viz. that he had never in his life tasted an apple, pear, grape, or indeed any kind
of green fruit. This fact seemed to evoke considerable surprise from the company, but a cautious
Scotsman, of a practical, matter-of-fact turn of mind, who had listened with much unconcern,
drily remarked, "It's a peety but ye had been in Paradise, and there micht na hae been ony
faa." I have spoken elsewhere of the cool matter-of-fact manner in which the awful questions
connected with the funerals of friends are often approached by Scottish people, without the
least intention or purpose of being irreverent or unfeeling. By the kindness of Mr. Lyon, I
am enabled to give an authentic anecdote of a curious character, illustrative of this habit
of mind, and I cannot do better than give it in his own words:--"An old tenant of my late father,
George Lyon of Wester Ogil, many years ago, when on his deathbed, and his end near at hand,
his wife thus addressed him: 'Willie, Willie, as lang as ye can speak, tell us are ye for your
burial-baps round or square?' Willie having responded to this inquiry, was next asked if the
murners were to have glooes (gloves) or mittens, the former being articles with fingers, the
latter having only a thumb-piece; and Willie, having also answered this question, was allowed
to depart in peace."

There could not be a better example of this familiar handling, without meaning offence, than
one which has just been sent to me by a kind correspondent. I give her own words. "Happening
to call on a poor neighbour, I asked after the children of a person who lived close by." She
replied, "They're no hame yet; gaed awa to the English kirk to get a clap o' the heid. It was
the day of confirmation for St. Paul's. This definition of the 'outward and visible sign' would
look rather odd in the catechism. But the poor woman said it from no disrespect; it was merely
her way of answering my question." But remarks on serious subjects often go to deeper views
of religious matters than might be expected from the position of the parties and the terms
made use of.

Of the wise and shrewd judgment of the Scottish character, as bearing upon religious pretensions,
I have an apt example from my friend Dr. Norman Macleod. During one of the late revivals in
Scotland, a small farmer went about preaching with much fluency and zeal the doctrine of a
"full assurance" of faith, and expressed his belief of it for himself in such extravagant terms
as few men would venture upon who were humble and cautious against presumption. The "preacher,"
being personally rather remarkable as a man of greedy and selfish views in life, excited some
suspicion in the breast of an old sagacious countryman, a neighbour of Dr. Macleod, who asked
him what he thought of John as a preacher, and of his doctrine. Scratching his head, as if
in some doubt, he replied, "I'm no verra sure o' Jock. I never ken't a man sae sure o' Heaven,
and sae sweert to be gaing tae't." He showed his sagacity, for John was soon after in prison
for theft.

Another story gives a good idea of the Scottish matter-of-fact view of things being brought
to bear upon a religious question without meaning to be profane or irreverent. Dr. Macleod
was on a Highland loch when a storm came on which threatened serious consequences. The doctor,
a large powerful man, was accompanied by a clerical friend of diminutive size and small appearance,
who began to speak seriously to the boatmen of their danger, and proposed that all present
should join in prayer. "Na, na," said the chief boatman; "let the little ane gang to pray,
but first the big ane maun tak an oar." Illustrative of the same spirit was the reply of a
Scotsman of the genuine old school, "Boatie" of Deeside, of whom I have more to say, to a relative
of mine. He had been nearly lost in a squall, and saved after great exertion, and was told
by my aunt that he should be grateful to providence for his safety. The man, not meaning to
be at all ungrateful, but viewing his preservation in the purely hard matter-of-fact light,
quietly answered, "Weel, weel, Mrs. Russell; Providence here or Providence there, an I hadna
worked sair mysell I had been drouned."

Old Mr. Downie, the parish minister of Banchory, was noted, in my earliest days, for his quiet
pithy remarks on men and things, as they came before him. His reply to his son, of whose social
position he had no very exalted opinion, was of this class. Young Downie had come to visit
his father from the West Indies, and told him that on his return he was to be married to a
lady whose high qualities and position he spoke of in extravagant terms. He assured his father
that she was "quite young, was very rich, and very beautiful." "Aweel, Jemmy," said the old
man, very quietly and very slily, "I'm thinking there maun be some faut." Of the dry sarcasm
we have a good example in the quiet utterance of a good Scottish phrase by an elder of a Free
Kirk lately formed. The minister was an eloquent man, and had attracted one of the town-council,
who, it was known, hardly ever entered the door of a church, and now came on motives of curiosity.
He was talking very grand to some of the congregation: "Upon my word, your minister is a very
eloquent man. Indeed, he will quite convert me." One of the elders, taking the word in a higher
sense than the speaker intended, quietly replied, "Indeed, Bailie, there's muckle need."

A kind correspondent sends me an illustration of this quaint matter-of-fact view of a question
as affecting the sentiments or the feelings. He tells me he knew an old lady who was a stout
large woman, and who with this state of body had many ailments, which she bore cheerfully and
patiently. When asked one day by a friend, "How she was keeping," she replied, "Ou, just middling;
there's ower muckle o' me to be a' weel at ae time." No Englishwoman would have given such
an answer. The same class of character is very strongly marked in a story which was told by
Mr. Thomas Constable, who has a keen appreciation of a good Scottish story, and tells it inimitably.
He used to visit an old lady who was much attenuated by long illness, and on going up stairs
one tremendously hot afternoon, the daughter was driving away the flies, which were very troublesome,
and was saying, "Thae flies will eat up a' that remains o' my puir mither." The old lady opened
her eyes, and the last words she spoke were, "What's left o' me's guid eneuch for them."

The spirit of caution and wariness by which the Scottish character is supposed to be distinguished
has given rise to many of these national anecdotes.

Certainly this cautious spirit thus pervaded the opinions of the Scottish architect who was
called upon to erect a building in England upon the long-lease system, so common with Anglican
proprietors, but quite new to our Scottish friend. When he found the proposal was to build
upon the tenure of 999 years, he quietly suggested, "Culd ye no mak it a thousand? 999 years'll
be slippin' awa'."

But of all the cautious and careful answers we ever heard of was one given by a carpenter to
an old lady in Glasgow, for whom he was working, and the anecdote is well authenticated. She
had offered him a dram, and asked him whether he would have it then or wait till his work was
done--"Indeed, mem," he said, "there's been sic a power o' sudden deaths lately that I'll just
tak it now." He would guard against contingency and secure his dram.

The following is a good specimen of the same humour:--A minister had been preaching against
covetousness and the love of money, and had frequently repeated how "love of money was the
root of all evil" Two old bodies walking home from church--one said, "An' wasna the minister
strang upo' the money?" "Nae doubt," said the other, rather hesitatingly; and added, "ay, but
it's grand to hae the wee bit siller in your haund when ye gang an errand."

I have still another specimen of this national, cool, and deliberative view of a question,
which seems characteristic of the temperament of our good countrymen. Some time back, when
it was not uncommon for challenges to be given and accepted for insults, or supposed insults,
an English gentleman was entertaining a party at Inverness with an account of the wonders he
had seen and the deeds he had performed in India, from whence he had lately arrived. He enlarged
particularly upon the size of the tigers he had met with at different times in his travels,
and by way of corroborating his statements, assured the company that he had shot one himself
considerably above forty feet long. A Scottish gentleman present, who thought that these narratives
rather exceeded a traveller's allowed privileges, coolly said that no doubt those were very
remarkable tigers; but that he could assure the gentleman there were in that northern part
of the country some wonderful animals, and, as an example, he cited the existence of a skate-fish
captured off Thurso, which exceeded half-an-acre in extent. The Englishman saw this was intended
as a sarcasm against his own story, so he left the room in indignation, and sent his friend,
according to the old plan, to demand satisfaction or an apology from the gentleman, who had,
he thought, insulted him. The narrator of the skate story coolly replied, "Weel, sir, gin yer
freend will tak' a few feet aff the length o' his tiger, we'll see what can be dune about the
breadth o' the skate." He was too cautious to commit himself to a rash or decided course of
conduct. When the tiger was shortened, he would take into consideration a reduction of superficial
area in his skate.

A kind correspondent has sent me about as good a specimen of dry Scottish quiet humour as I
know. A certain Aberdeenshire laird, who kept a very good poultry-yard, could not command a
fresh egg for his breakfast, and felt much aggrieved by the want. One day, however, he met
his grieve's wife with a nice basket, and very suspiciously going towards the market; on passing
and speaking a word, he was enabled to discover that her basket was full of beautiful white
eggs. Next time he talked with his grieve, he said to him, "James, I like you very well, and
I think you serve me faithfully, but I cannot say I admire your wife." To which the cool reply
was, "Oh, 'deed, sir, I'm no surprised at that, for I dinna muckle admire her mysel'."

An answer very much resembling this, and as much to the point, was that of a gudewife on Deeside,
whose daughter had just been married and had left her for her new home. A lady asked the mother
very kindly about her daughter, and said she hoped she liked her new home and new relations.
"Ou, my lady, she likes the parish weel eneuch, but she doesna think muckle o' her man!"

The natives of Aberdeenshire are distinguished for the two qualities of being very acute in
their remarks and very peculiar in their language. Any one may still gain a thorough knowledge
of Aberdeen dialect and see capital examples of Aberdeen humour. I have been supplied with
a remarkable example of this combination of Aberdeen shrewdness with Aberdeen dialect. In the
course of the week after the Sunday on which several elders of an Aberdeen parish had been
set apart for parochial offices, a knot of the parishioners had assembled at what was in all
parishes a great place of resort for idle gossiping--the smiddy or blacksmith's workshop. The
qualifications of the new elders were severely criticised. One of the speakers emphatically
laid down that the minister should not have been satisfied, and had in fact made a most unfortunate
choice. He was thus answered by another parish oracle--perhaps the schoolmaster, perhaps a
weaver:--"Fat better culd the man dee nir he's dune?--he bud tae big's dyke wi' the feal at
fit o't." He meant there was no choice of material--he could only take what offered.

By the kindness of Dr. Begg, I have a most amusing anecdote to illustrate how deeply long-tried
associations were mixed up with the habits of life in the older generation. A junior minister
having to assist at a church in a remote part of Aberdeenshire, the parochial minister (one
of the old school) promised his young friend a good glass of whisky-toddy after all was over,
adding slily and very significantly, "and gude smuggled whusky." His Southron guest thought
it incumbent to say, "Ah, minister, that's wrong, is it not? you know it is contrary to Act
of Parliament." The old Aberdonian could not so easily give up his fine whisky to what he considered
an unjust interference; so he quietly said, "Oh, Acts o' Parliament lose their breath before
they get to Aberdeenshire."

There is something very amusing in the idea of what may be called the "fitness of things,"
in regard to snuff-taking, which occurred to an honest Highlander, a genuine lover of sneeshin.
At the door of the Blair-Athole Hotel he observed standing a magnificent man in full tartans,
and noticed with much admiration the wide dimensions of his nostrils in a fine upturned nose.
He accosted him, and, as his most complimentary act, offered him his mull for a pinch. The
stranger drew up, and rather haughtily said: "I never take snuff." "Oh," said the other, "that's
a peety, for there's grand accommodation[15]!"

I don't know a better example of the sly sarcasm than the following answer of a Scottish servant
to the violent command of his enraged master. A well-known coarse and abusive Scottish law
functionary, when driving out of his grounds, was shaken by his carriage coming in contact
with a large stone at the gate. He was very angry, and ordered the gatekeeper to have it removed
before his return. On driving home, however, he encountered another severe shock by the wheels
coming in contact with the very same stone, which remained in the very same place. Still more
irritated than before, in his usual coarse language he called the gatekeeper, and roared out:
"You rascal, if you don't send that beastly stone to h---, I'll break your head." "Well," said
the man quietly, and as if he had received an order which he had to execute, and without meaning
anything irreverent, "aiblins gin it were sent to heevan it wad be mair out o' your Lordship's
way."

I think about as cool a Scottish "aside" as I know, was that of the old dealer who, when exhorting
his son to practise honesty in his dealings, on the ground of its being the "best policy,"
quietly added, "I hae tried baith"

In this work frequent mention is made of a class of old ladies, generally residing in small
towns, who retained till within the memory of many now living the special characteristics I
have referred to. Owing to local connection, I have brought forward those chiefly who lived
in Montrose and the neighbourhood. But the race is extinct; you might as well look for hoops
and farthingales in society as for such characters now. You can scarcely imagine an old lady,
however quaint, now making use of some of the expressions recorded in the text, or saying,
for the purpose of breaking up a party of which she was tired, from holding bad cards, "We'll
stop now, bairns; I'm no enterteened;" or urging more haste in going to church on the plea,
"Come awa, or I'll be ower late for the 'wicked man'"--her mode of expressing the commencement
of the service.

Nothing could better illustrate the quiet pawky style for which our countrymen have been distinguished,
than the old story of the piper and the wolves. A Scottish piper was passing through a deep
forest. In the evening he sat down to take his supper. He had hardly begun, when a number of
hungry wolves, prowling about for food, collected round him. In self-defence, the poor man
began to throw pieces of his victuals to them, which they greedily devoured. When he had disposed
of all, in a fit of despair he took his pipes and began to play. The unusual sound terrified
the wolves, which, one and all, took to their heels and scampered off in every direction: on
observing which, Sandy quietly remarked, "Od, an I'd kenned ye liket the pipes sae weel, I'd
a gien ye a spring afore supper."

This imperturbable mode of looking at the events of life is illustrated by perhaps the most
cautious answer on record, of the Scotsman who, being asked if he could play the fiddle, warily
answered, "He couldna say, for he had never tried." But take other cases. For example: One
tremendously hot day, during the old stage-coach system, I was going down to Portobello, when
the coachman drew up to take in a gentleman who had hailed him on the road. He was evidently
an Englishman--a fat man, and in a perfect state of "thaw and dissolution" from the heat and
dust. He wiped himself, and exclaimed, as a remark addressed to the company generally, "D----d
hot it is." No one said anything for a time, till a man in the corner slily remarked, "I dinna
doubt, sir, but it may." The cautiousness against committing himself unreservedly to any proposition,
however plausible, was quite delicious.

A more determined objection to giving a categorical answer occurred, as I have been assured,
in regard to a more profound question. A party travelling on a railway got into deep discussion
on theological questions.

A plain Scotsman present seemed much interested in these matters, and having expressed himself
as not satisfied with the explanations which had been elicited in the course of discussion
on a particular point regarding predestination, one of the party said to him that he had observed
a minister, whom they all knew, in the adjoining compartment, and that when the train stopped
at the next station a few minutes, he could go and ask his opinion. The good man accordingly
availed himself of the opportunity to get hold of the minister, and lay their difficulty before
him. He returned in time to resume his own place, and when they had started again, the gentleman
who had advised him, finding him not much disposed to voluntary communication, asked if he
had seen the minister. "O ay," he said, "he had seen him." "And did you propose the question
to him?" "O ay." "And what did he say?" "Oh, he just said he didna ken; and what was mair he
didna care!"

I have received the four following admirable anecdotes, illustrative of dry Scottish pawky
humour, from an esteemed minister of the Scottish Church, the Rev. W. Mearns of Kinneff. I
now record them nearly in the same words as his own kind communication. The anecdotes are as
follow:--An aged minister of the old school, Mr. Patrick Stewart, one Sunday took to the pulpit
a sermon without observing that the first leaf or two were so worn and eaten away that he couldn't
decipher or announce the text. He was not a man, however, to be embarrassed or taken aback
by a matter of this sort, but at once intimated the state of matters to the congregation,--"My
brethren, I canna tell ye the text, for the mice hae eaten it; but we'll just begin whaur the
mice left aff, and when I come to it I'll let you ken."

In the year 1843, shortly after the Disruption, a parish minister had left the manse and removed
to about a mile's distance. His pony got loose one day, and galloped down the road in the direction
of the old glebe. The minister's man in charge ran after the pony in a great fuss, and when
passing a large farm-steading on the way, cried out to the farmer, who was sauntering about,
but did not know what had taken place--"Oh, sir, did ye see the minister's shault?" "No, no,"
was the answer,--"but what's happened?" "Ou, sir, fat do ye think? the minister's shault's
got lowse frae his tether, an' I'm frichtened he's ta'en the road doun to the auld glebe."
"Weel-a-wicht!"--was the shrewd clever rejoinder of the farmer, who was a keen supporter of
the old parish church, "I wad na wonder at that. An' I'se warrant, gin the minister was gettin'
lowse frae his tether, he wad jist tak the same road."

An old clerical friend upon Speyside, a confirmed bachelor, on going up to the pulpit one Sunday
to preach, found, after giving out the psalm, that he had forgotten his sermon. I do not know
what his objections were to his leaving the pulpit, and going to the manse for his sermon,
but he preferred sending his old confidential housekeeper for it. He accordingly stood up in
the pulpit, stopped the singing which had commenced, and thus accosted his faithful domestic:--"Annie;
I say, Annie, we've committed a mistak the day. Ye maun jist gang your waa's hame, and ye'll
get my sermon oot o' my breek-pouch, an' we'll sing to the praise o' the Lord till ye come
back again." Annie, of course, at once executed her important mission, and brought the sermon
out of "the breek-pouch," and the service, so far as we heard, was completed without further
interruption.

My dear friend, the late Rev. Dr. John Hunter, told me an anecdote very characteristic of the
unimaginative matter-of-fact Scottish view of matters. One of the ministers of Edinburgh, a
man of dry humour, had a daughter who had for some time passed the period of youth and of beauty.
She had become an Episcopalian, an event which the Doctor accepted with much good-nature, and
he was asking her one day if she did not intend to be confirmed. "Well," she said, "I don't
know. I understand Mr. Craig always kisses the candidates whom he prepares, and I could not
stand that." "Indeed, Jeanie," said the Doctor slily, "gin Edward Craig were to gie ye a kiss,
I dinna think ye would be muckle the waur."

Many anecdotes characteristic of the Scottish peasant often turn upon words and ideas connected
with Holy Scripture. This is not to be considered as in any sense profane or irreverent; but
it arises from the Bible being to the peasantry of an older generation their library--their
only book. We have constant indications of this almost exclusive familiarity with Scripture
ideas. At the late ceremonial in the north, when the Archbishop of Canterbury laid the foundation
of a Bishop's Church at Inverness, a number of persons, amid the general interest and kindly
feeling displayed by the inhabitants, were viewing the procession from a hill as it passed
along. When the clergy, to the number of sixty, came on, an old woman, who was watching the
whole scene with some jealousy, exclaimed, at sight of the surplices, "There they go, the whited
sepulchres!" I received another anecdote illustrative of the same remark from an esteemed minister
of the Free Church: I mean of the hold which Scripture expressions have upon the minds of our
Scottish peasantry. One of his flock was a sick nervous woman, who hardly ever left the house.
But one fine afternoon, when she was left alone, she fancied she would like to get a little
air in the field adjoining the house. Accordingly she put on a bonnet and wrapped herself in
a huge red shawl. Creeping along the dyke-side, some cattle were attracted towards her, and
first one and then another gathered round, and she took shelter in the ditch till she was relieved
by some one coming up to her rescue. She afterwards described her feelings to her minister
in strong language, adding, "And eh, sir! when I lay by the dyke, and the beasts round a' glowerin'
at me, I thocht what Dauvid maun hae felt when he said--'Many bulls have compassed me; strong
bulls of Bashan have beset me round.'"

With the plainness and pungency of the old-fashioned Scottish language there was sometimes
a coarseness of expression, which, although commonly repeated in the Scottish drawing-room
of last century, could not now be tolerated. An example of a very plain and downright address
of a laird has been recorded in the annals of "Forfarshire Lairdship." He had married one of
the Misses Guthrie, who had a strong feeling towards the Presbyterian faith in which she had
been brought up, although her husband was one of the zealous old school of Episcopalians. The
young wife had invited her old friend, the parish minister, to tea, and had given him a splendid
"four hours." Ere the table was cleared the laird came in unexpectedly, and thus expressed
his indignation, not very delicately, at what he considered an unwarrantable exercise of hospitality
at his cost:--"Helen Guthrie, ye'll no think to save yer ain saul at the expense of my meal-girnel!"

The answer of an old woman under examination by the minister to the question from the Shorter
Catechism--"What are the decrees of God?" could not have been surpassed by the General Assembly
of the Kirk, or even the Synod of Dort--"Indeed, sir, He kens that best Himsell." We have an
answer analogous to that, though not so pungent, in a catechumen of the late Dr. Johnston of
Leith. She answered his own question, patting him on the shoulder--"'Deed, just tell it yersell,
bonny doctor (he was a very handsome man); naebody can tell it better."

To pass from the answers of "persons come to years of discretion"--I have elsewhere given examples
of peculiar traits of character set forth in the answers of mere children, and no doubt a most
amusing collection might be made of very juvenile "Scottish Reminiscences." One of these is
now a very old story, and has long been current amongst us:--A little boy who attended a day-school
in the neighbourhood, when he came home in the evening was always asked how he stood in his
own class. The invariable answer made was, "I'm second dux," which means in Scottish academical
language second from the top of the class. As his habits of application at home did not quite
bear out the claim to so distinguished a position at school, one of the family ventured to
ask what was the number in the class to which he was attached. After some hesitation he was
obliged to admit: "Ou, there's jist me and anither lass." I did not anticipate when in a former
edition I introduced this answer, which I received from my nephew Sir Alexander Ramsay, that
it would call forth a comment so interesting as one which I have received from Dr. Barber of
Ulverston. He sends me an extract from Matthew's Translation of the Bible, which he received
from Rev. L.R. Ayre, who possesses a copy of date 1553, from which it appears that Psalm xci.
5 was thus translated by Matthew, who adopted his translation from Coverdale and Tyndale:--"So
that thou shalt not need to be afrayed for any bugge by nyght, nor for the arrow that flyeth
by day[16]." Dr. Barber ingeniously remarks--"Is it possible the little boy's mother had one
of these old Bibles, or is it merely a coincidence?"

The innocent and unsophisticated answers of children on serious subjects are often very amusing.
Many examples are recorded, and one I have received seems much to the point, and derives a
good deal of its point from the Scottish turn of the expressions. The little fellow, really
shocked, called to his sister, "Come awa', Jeanie, here's a man swearing awfully."

A Scotch story like that of the little boy, of which the humour consisted in the dry application
of the terms in a sense different from what was intended by the speaker, was sent to me, but
has got spoilt by passing through the press. It must be Scotch, or at least, is composed of
Scottish materials--the Shorter Catechism and the bagpipes. A piper was plying his trade in
the streets, and a strict elder of the kirk, desirous to remind him that it was a somewhat
idle and profitless occupation, went up to him and proposed solemnly the first question of
the Shorter Catechism, "What is the chief end of man?" The good piper, thinking only of his
own business, and supposing that the question had reference to some pipe melody, innocently
answered, "Na, I dinna ken the tune, but if ye'll whistle it I'll try and play it for ye."

I have said before, and I would repeat the remark again and again, that the object of this
work is not to string together mere funny stories, or to collect amusing anecdotes. We have
seen such collections, in which many of the anecdotes are mere Joe Millers translated into
Scotch. The purport of these pages has been throughout to illustrate Scottish life and character,
by bringing forward those modes and forms of expression by which alone our national peculiarities
can be familiarly illustrated and explained. Besides Scottish replies and expressions which
are most characteristic--and in fact unique for dry humour, for quaint and exquisite wit--I
have often referred to a consideration of dialect and proverbs. There can be no doubt there
is a force and beauty in our Scottish phraseology, as well as a quaint humour, considered merely
as phraseology, peculiar to itself. I have spoken of the phrase "Auld langsyne," and of other
words, which may be compared in their Anglican and Scottish form. Take the familiar term common
to many singing-birds. The English word linnet does not, to my mind, convey so much of simple
beauty and of pastoral ideas as belong to our Scottish word LINTIE.

I recollect hearing the Rev. Dr. Norman Macleod give a most interesting account of his visit
to Canada. In the course of his eloquent narrative he mentioned a conversation he had with
a Scottish emigrant, who in general terms spoke favourably and gratefully of his position in
his adopted country. But he could not help making this exception when he thought of the "banks
and braes o' bonny Doon"--"But oh, sir," he said, "there are nae linties i' the wuds." How
touching the words in his own dialect! The North American woods, although full of birds of
beautiful plumage, it is well known have no singing-birds.

A worthy Scottish Episcopal minister one day met a townsman, a breeder and dealer in singing-birds.
The man told him he had just had a child born in his family, and asked him if he would baptize
it. He thought the minister could not resist the offer of a bird. "Eh, Maister Shaw," he said,
"if ye'll jist do it, I hae a fine lintie the noo, and if ye'll do it, I'll gie ye the lintie."
He quite thought that this would settle the matter!

By these remarks I mean to express the feeling that the word lintie conveys to my mind more
of tenderness and endearment towards the little songster than linnet. And this leads me to
a remark (which I do not remember to have met with) that Scottish dialects are peculiarly rich
in such terms of endearment, more so than the pure Anglican. Without at all pretending to exhaust
the subject, I may cite the following as examples of the class of terms I speak of. Take the
names for parents--"Daddie" and "Minnie;" names for children, "My wee bit lady" or "laddie,"
"My wee bit lamb;" of a general nature, "My ain kind dearie." "Dawtie," especially used to
young people, described by Jamieson a darling or favourite, one who is dawted--i.e. fondled
or caressed. My "joe" expresses affection with familiarity, evidently derived from joy, an
easy transition--as "My joe, Janet;" "John Anderson, my joe, John." Of this character is Burns's
address to a wife, "My winsome"--i.e. charming, engaging--"wee thing;" also to a wife, "My
winsome marrow"--the latter word signifying a dear companion, one of a pair closely allied
to each other; also the address of Rob the Ranter to Maggie Lauder, "My bonnie bird." Now,
we would remark, upon this abundant nomenclature of kindly expressions in the Scottish dialect,
that it assumes an interesting position as taken in connection with the Scottish Life and Character,
and as a set-off against a frequent short and grumpy manner. It indicates how often there must
be a current of tenderness and affection in the Scottish heart, which is so frequently represented
to be, like its climate, "stern and wild." There could not be such terms were the feelings
they express unknown. I believe it often happens that in the Scottish character there is a
vein of deep and kindly feeling lying hid under a short, and hard and somewhat stern manner.
Hence has arisen the Scottish saying which is applicable to such cases--"His girn's waur than
his bite:" his disposition is of a softer nature than his words and manner would often lead
you to suppose.

There are two admirable articles in Blackwood's Magazine, in the numbers for November and December
1870, upon this subject. The writer abundantly vindicates the point and humour of the Scottish
tongue. Who can resist, for example, the epithet applied by Meg Merrilies to an unsuccessful
probationer for admission to the ministry:--"a sticket stibbler"? Take the sufficiency of Holy
Scripture as a pledge for any one's salvation:--"There's eneuch between the brods o' the Testament
to save the biggest sinner i' the warld." I heard an old Scottish Episcopalian thus pithily
describe the hasty and irreverent manner of a young Englishman:--"He ribbled aff the prayers
like a man at the heid o' a regiment." A large family of young children has been termed "a
great sma' family." It was a delicious dry rejoinder to the question--"Are you Mr. So-and-so?"
"It's a' that's o' me" (i.e. to be had for him.) I have heard an old Scottish gentleman direct
his servant to mend the fire by saying, "I think, Dauvid, we wadna be the waur o' some coals."

There is a pure Scottish term, which I have always thought more expressive than any English
word of ideas connected with manners in society--I mean the word to blether, or blethering,
or blethers. Jamieson defines it to "talk nonsense." But it expresses far more--it expresses
powerfully, to Scottish people, a person at once shallow, chattering, conceited, tiresome, voluble.

There is a delicious servantgirlism, often expressed in an answer given at the door to an inquirer:
"Is your master at home, or mistress?" as the case may be. The problem is to save the direct
falsehood, and yet evade the visit; so the answer is--"Ay, he or she is at hame; but he's no in"

The transition from Scottish expressions to Scottish Poetry is easy and natural. In fact, the
most interesting feature now belonging to Scottish life and social habits is, to a certain
extent, becoming with many a matter of reminiscence of Poetry in the Scottish dialect, as being
the most permanent and the most familiar feature of Scottish characteristics. It is becoming
a matter of history, in so far as we find that it has for some time ceased to be cultivated
with much ardour, or to attract much popularity. In fact, since the time of Burns, it has been
losing its hold on the public mind. It is a remarkable fact that neither Scott nor Wilson,
both admirers of Burns, both copious writers of poetry themselves, both also so distinguished
as writers of Scottish prose, should have written any poetry strictly in the form of pure Scottish
dialect. "Jock o' Hazeldean" I hardly admit to be an exception. It is not Scottish. Campbell,
a poet and a Scotsman, has not attempted it. In short, we do not find poetry in the Scottish
dialect at all kept up in Scotland. It is every year becoming more a matter of research and
reminiscence. Nothing new is added to the old stock, and indeed it is surprising to see the
ignorance and want of interest displayed by many young persons in this department of literature.
How few read the works of Allan Ramsay, once so popular, and still so full of pastoral imagery!
There are occasionally new editions of the Gentle Shepherd, but I suspect for a limited class
of readers. I am assured the boys of the High School, Academy, etc., do not care even for Burns.
As poetry in the Scottish dialect is thus slipping away from the public Scottish mind, I thought
it very suitable to a work of this character to supply a list of modern Scottish dialect writers.
This I am able to provide by the kindness of our distinguished antiquary, Mr. David Laing--the
fulness and correctness of whose acquirements are only equalled by his readiness and courtesy
in communicating his information to others:--

SCOTTISH POETS OF THE LAST CENTURY.

ALLAN RAMSAY. B. 1686. D. 1757. His Gentle Shepherd, completed in 1725, and his Collected Poems
in 1721-1728.

It cannot be said there was any want of successors, however obscure, following in the same
track. Those chiefly deserving of notice were--

ALEXANDER Ross of Lochlee. B. 1700. D. 1783. The Fortunate Shepherdess.

ROBERT FERGUSSON. B. 1750. D. 1774. Leith Races, Caller Oysters, etc.

REV. JOHN SKINNER. B. 1721. D. 1807. Tullochgorum.

ROBERT BURNS. B. 1759. D. 1796.

ALEXANDER, FOURTH DUKE OF GORDON. B. 1743. D. 1827. Cauld Kail in Aberdeen.

ALEXANDER WILSON of Paisley, who latterly distinguished himself as an American ornithologist.
B. 1766. D. 1813. Watty and Meg.

HECTOR MACNEILL. B. 1746. D. 1818. Will and Jean.

ROBERT TANNAHILL. B. 1774. D. 1810. Songs.

JAMES HOGG. B. 1772. D. 1835.

ALLAN CUNNINGHAM. B. 1784. D. 1842.

To this list we must add the names of Lady Nairne and Lady Anne Lindsay. To the former we are
indebted for "The Land o' the Leal," "The Laird o' Cockpen," and "The Auld Hoose;" to the latter
for "Auld Robin Gray:" and our wonder is, how those who could write so charmingly should have
written so little.

I have no intention of discussing the general question of Scottish poetry--of defending or
eulogising, or of apologising for anything belonging to it. There are songs in broad Scottish
dialect of which the beauty and the power will never be lost. Words of Burns, Allan Ramsay,
and Lady Nairne, must ever speak to hearts that are true to nature. I am desirous of bringing
before my readers at this time the name of a Scottish poet, which, though in Mr. Laing's list,
I fear is become rather a reminiscence. It is fifty years since his poetical pieces were published
in a collected form. I am desirous of giving a special notice of a true-hearted Scotsman, and
a genuine Scottish poet, under both characters. I look with a tender regard to the memory of
the Rev. JOHN SKINNER of Langside. He has written little in quantity, but it is all charming.
He was a good Christian minister. He was a man of learning--a man of liberal and generous feeling.
In addition to all this, he has upon me the claim of having been a Scottish Episcopalian divine,
and I am always rejoiced to see among learned men of our church sympathies with liberalism,
besides what is patristic and theological. John Skinner's name and family are much mixed up
with our church. 'Tullochgorum' was father of Primus John Skinner, and grandfather of Primus
W. Skinner and of the Rev. John Skinner of Forfar. The youngest brother of Tullochgorum was
James Skinner, W.S., who died at ninety-one, and was grandfather of W. Skinner, W.S., Edinburgh.
The Rev. J. Skinner was born in Birse, a wild part of Aberdeenshire, 1721. His father was parochial
schoolmaster at Gight for nearly fifty years. He worked hard under the care of his father,
who was a good Latin scholar. He gained a bursary at Aberdeen, where he studied. When he left
college he became schoolmaster at Monymusk, where he wrote some pieces that attracted attention,
and Sir Archibald Grant took him into the house, and allowed him the full use of a very fine
library. He made good use of this opportunity, and indeed became a fair scholar and theologian.
Skinner had been brought up a Presbyterian, but at Monymusk found reasons for changing his
views. In June 1740 he became tutor to the only son of Mrs. Sinclair in Shetland. Returning
to Aberdeenshire in 1741, he completed his studies for the ministry, was ordained by Bishop
Dunbar, and in 1742 became pastor of Langside. He worked for this little congregation for nearly
sixty-five years, and they were happy and united under his pastoral charge. One very interesting
incident took place during his ministry, which bears upon our general question of reminiscences
and changes. John Skinner was in his own person an example of that persecution for political
opinion referred to in Professor Macgregor's account of the large prayer-book in the library
at Panmure. After the '45, Episcopalians were treated with suspicion and severity. The severe
laws passed against Jacobites were put in force, and poor Skinner fined.

However, better and more peaceful times came round, and all that John Skinner had undergone
did not sour his temper or make him severe or misanthropical. As a pastor he seems to have
had tact, as well as good temper, in the management of his flock, if we may judge from the
following anecdote:--Talking with an obstinate self-confident farmer, when the conversation
happened to turn on the subject of the motion of the earth, the farmer would not be convinced
that the earth moved at all. "Hoot, minister," the man roared out; "d'ye see the earth never
gaes oot o' the pairt, and it maun be that the sun gaes round: we a' ken he rises i' the east
and sets i' the west." Then, as if to silence all argument, he added triumphantly, "As if the
sun didna gae round the earth, when it is said in Scripture that the Lord commanded the sun
to stand still!" Mr. Skinner, finding it was no use to argue further, quietly answered, "Ay,
it's vera true; the sun was commanded to stand still, and there he stands still, for Joshua
never tauld him to tak the road again." I have said John Skinner wrote little Scottish poetry,
but what he wrote was rarely good. His prose works extended over three volumes when they were
collected by his son, the Bishop of Aberdeen, but we have no concern with them. His poetical
pieces, by which his name will never die in Scotland, are the "Reel of Tullochgorum" and the
"Ewie with the Crooked Horn," charming Scottish songs,--one the perfection of the lively, the
other of the pathetic. It is quite enough to say of "Tullochgorum" (by which the old man is
now always designated), what was said of it by Robert Burns, as "the first of songs," and as
the best Scotch song Scotland ever saw.

I have brought in the following anecdote, exactly as it appeared in the Scotsman of October
4, 1859, because it introduces his name.

"The late Rev. John Skinner, author of 'Annals of Scottish Episcopacy,' was his grandson. He
was first appointed to a charge in Montrose, from whence he was removed to Banff, and ultimately
to Forfar. After he had left Montrose, it reached his ears that an ill-natured insinuation
was circulating there that he had been induced to leave this town by the temptation of a better
income and of fat pork, which, it would appear, was plentiful in the locality of his new incumbency.
Indignant at such an aspersion, he wrote a letter, directed to his maligners, vindicating himself
sharply from it, which he showed to his grandfather, John Skinner of Langside, for his approval.
The old gentleman objected to it as too lengthy, and proposed the following pithy substitute:--

     "'Had Skinner been of carnal mind,
     As strangely ye suppose,
     Or had he even been fond of swine,
     He'd ne'er have left Montrose.'"

But there is an anecdote of John Skinner which should endear his memory to every generous and
loving heart. On one occasion he was passing a small dissenting place of worship at the time
when the congregation were engaged in singing: on passing the door--old-fashioned Scottish
Episcopalian as he was--he reverently took off his hat. His companion said to him, "What! do
you feel so much sympathy with this Anti Burgher congregation?" "No," said Mr. Skinner, "but
I respect and love any of my fellow-Christians who are engaged in singing to the glory of the
Lord Jesus Christ." Well done, old Tullochgorum! thy name shall be loved and honoured by every
true liberal-minded Scotsman.

Yes!

We must firmly believe that, obsolete as the dialect of Scotland may become, and its words
and expressions a matter of tradition and of reminiscence with many, still there are Scottish
lines, and broad Scottish lines, which can never cease to hold their place in the affections
and the admiration of innumerable hearts whom they have charmed. Can the choice and popular
Scottish verses, endeared to us by so many kindly associations of the past, and by so many
beauties and poetical graces of their own, ever lose their attractions for a Scottish heart?
The charm of such strains can never die.

I think one subsidiary cause for permanency in the popularity still belonging to particular
Scottish songs has proceeded from their association with Scottish music. The melodies of Scotland
can never die. In the best of these compositions there is a pathos and a feeling which must
preserve them, however simple in their construction, from being vulgar or commonplace. Mendelssohn
did not disdain taking Scottish airs as themes for the exercise of his profound science and
his exquisite taste. It must, I think, be admitted that singing of Scottish songs in the perfection
of their style--at once pathetic, graceful, and characteristic--is not so often met with as
to remove all apprehension that ere long they may become matters only of reminiscence. Many
accomplished musicians often neglect entirely the cultivation of their native melodies, under
the idea of their being inconsistent with the elegance and science of high-class music. They
commit a mistake. When judiciously and tastefully performed, it is a charming style of music,
and will always give pleasure to the intelligent hearer. I have heard two young friends, who
have attained great skill in scientific and elaborate compositions, execute the simple song
of "Low down in the Broom," with an effect I shall not easily forget. Who that has heard the
Countess of Essex, when Miss Stephens, sing "Auld Robin Gray," can ever lose the impression
of her heart-touching notes? In the case of "Auld Robin Gray," the song composed by Lady Anne
Lindsay, although very beautiful in itself, has been, I think, a good deal indebted to the
air for its great and continued popularity. The history of that tender and appropriate melody
is somewhat curious, and not generally known. The author was not a Scotsman. It was composed
by the Rev. Mr. Leves, rector of Wrington in Somersetshire, either early in this century or
just at the close of the last. Mr. Leves was fond of music, and composed several songs, but
none ever gained any notice except his "Auld Robin Gray," the popularity of which has been
marvellous. I knew the family when I lived in Somersetshire, and had met them in Bath. Mr.
Leves composed the air for his daughter, Miss Bessy Leves, who was a pretty girl and a pretty
singer.

I cannot but deeply regret to think that I should in these pages have any ground for classing
Scottish poetry and Scottish airs amongst "Reminiscences." It is a department of literature
where, of course, there must be selection, but I am convinced it will repay a careful cultivation.
I would recommend, as a copious and judicious selection of Scottish tunes, "The Scottish Minstrel,"
by R.A. Smith (Purdie, Edinburgh). There are the words, also, of a vast number of Scottish
songs, but the account of their authorship is very defective. Then, again, for the fine Scottish
ballads of an older period, we have two admirable collections--one by Mr. R. Chambers, and
one by the late Professor Aytoun. For Scottish dialect songs of the more modern type, a copious
collection will be found (exclusive of Burns and Allan Earn say) in small volumes published
by David Robertson, Glasgow, at intervals from 1832 to 1853, under the title of Whistlebinkie.

But there are more than lines of Scottish poetry which may become matter of reminiscence, and
more than Scottish song melodies which may be forgotten. There are strains of Scottish PSALMODY
of which it would be more sad to think that they possibly may have lost their charm and their
hold with Scottish people. That such psalmody, of a peculiar Scottish class and character,
has existed, no one can doubt who has knowledge or recollection of past days. In glens and
retired passes, where those who fled from persecution met together--on the moors and heaths,
where men suffering for their faith took refuge--in the humble worship of the cottar's fireside--were
airs of sacred Scottish melody, which were well calculated to fan the heavenward flame which
was kindled in lays of the "sweet Psalmist of Israel." These psalm-tunes are in their way as
peculiar as the song-tunes we have referred to. Nothing can be more touching than the description
by Burns of the domestic psalmody of his father's cottage. Mr. E. Chambers, in his Life of
Burns, informs us that the poet, during his father's infirmity and after his death, had himself
sometimes conducted family worship. Happy days, ere he had encountered the temptations of a
world in which he had too often fallen before the solicitations of guilty passion! and then,
beautifully does he describe the characteristic features of this portion of the cottars worship.

He was not, alas! always disposed in after life to reverence these sacred melodies as he had
done in his youthful days. In his poem of "The Holy Fair," he less reverently adduces mention
of these sacred airs:--

     "Now turn the Psalms o' David ower,
        And lilt wi' holy clangour.
      O' double verse come gie us four,
        An' skirl up the Bangor."

These tunes seem to have been strictly and exclusively national. In proof of such psalmody
being quite national, I have been told that many of these tunes were composed by artisans,
such as builders, joiners, blacksmiths, etc.

Several of the psalm-tunes more peculiar to Scotland are no doubt of an early date. In Ravenscroft's
Psalms, published with the music in four parts in 1621, he gives the names of seven as purely
Scottish--King's, Duke's, Abbey, Dunfermline, Dundee, Glasgow, Martyrs. I was used to hear
such psalmody in my early days in the parish church of Fettercairn, where we always attended
during summer. It had all the simple characteristics described by Burns, and there was a heartiness
and energy too in the congregation when, as he expresses it, they used to "skirl up the Bangor,"
of which the effects still hang in my recollection. At that time there prevailed the curious
custom, when some of the psalms were sung, of reading out a single line, and when that was
sung another line was read, and so throughout[18]. Thus, on singing the 50th psalm, the first
line sounded thus:--"Our God shall come, and shall no more;" when that was sung, there came
the next startling announcement--"Be silent, but speak out." A rather unfortunate juxtaposition
was suggested through this custom, which we are assured really happened in the church of Irvine.
The precentor, after having given out the first line, and having observed some members of the
family from the castle struggling to get through the crowd on a sacramental occasion, cried
out, "Let the noble family of Eglinton pass," and then added the line which followed the one
he had just given out rather mal-apropos--"Nor stand in sinners' way." One peculiarity I remember,
which was, closing the strain sometimes by an interval less than a semitone; instead of the
half-note preceding the close or key-note, they used to take the quarter-note, the effect of
which had a peculiar gurgling sound, but I never heard it elsewhere. It may be said these Scottish
tunes were unscientific, and their performance rude. It may be so, but the effect was striking,
as I recall it through the vista of threescore years and ten. Great advances, no doubt, have
been made in Scotland in congregational psalmody; organs have in some instances been adopted;
choirs have been organised with great effort by choirmasters of musical taste and skill. But
I hope the spirit of PIETY, which in past times once accompanied the old Scottish psalm, whether
sung in the church or at home, has not departed with the music. Its better emotions are not,
I hope, to become a "Reminiscence."

There was no doubt sometimes a degree of noise in the psalmody more than was consistent with
good taste, but this often proceeded from the earnestness of those who joined. I recollect
at Banchory an honest fellow who sang so loud that he annoyed his fellow-worshippers, and the
minister even rebuked him for "skirling" so loud. James was not quite patient under these hints,
and declared to some of his friends that he was resolved to sing to the praise of God, as he
said, "gin I should crack the waas o' the houss."

Going from sacred tunes to sacred words, a good many changes have taken place in the little
history of our own psalmody and hymnology. When I first came to Edinburgh, for psalms we made
use of the mild and vapid new version of Tate and Brady;--for hymns, almost each congregation
had its own selection--and there were hymn-books of Dundee, Perth, Glasgow, etc. The Established
Church used the old rough psalter, with paraphrases by Logan, etc., and a few hymns added by
authority of the General Assembly. There seems to be a pretty general tendency in the Episcopal
Church to adopt at present the extensive collection called "Hymns Ancient and Modern," containing
386 pieces. Copies of the words alone are to be procured for one penny, and the whole, with
tunes attached, to be procured for 1s. 6d. The Hymns Ancient and Modern are not set forth with
any Ecclesiastical sanction. It is supposed, however, that there will be a Hymnal published
by the Church of England on authority, and if so, our Church will be likely to adopt it. The
Established Church Hymnal Committee have lately sanctioned a very interesting collection of
200 pieces. The compilation has been made with liberality of feeling as well as with good taste.
There are several of Neale's translations from mediaeval hymns, several from John Keble, and
the whole concludes with the Te Deum taken literally from the Prayer-Book.

This mention of Scottish Psalmody and Scottish Hymnology, whether for private or for public
worship, naturally brings us to a very important division of our subject; I mean the general
question of reminiscences of Scottish religious feelings and observances; and first in regard
to Scottish clergy.

My esteemed friend, Lord Neaves, who, it is well known, combines with his great legal knowledge
and high literary acquirements a keen sense of the humorous, has sometimes pleasantly complained
of my drawing so many of my specimens of Scottish humour from sayings and doings of Scottish
ministers. They were a shrewd and observant race. They lived amongst their own people from
year to year, and understood the Scottish type of character. Their retired habits and familiar
intercourse with their parishioners gave rise to many quaint and racy communications. They
were excellent men, well suited to their pastoral work, and did much good amongst their congregations;
for it should be always remembered that a national church requires a sympathy and resemblance
between the pastors and the flocks. Both will be found to change together. Nothing could be
further from my mind in recording these stories, than the idea of casting ridicule upon such
an order of men. My own feelings as a Scotsman, with all their ancestral associations, lead
me to cherish their memory with pride and deep interest, I may appeal also to the fact that
many contributions to this volume are voluntary offerings from distinguished clergymen of the
Church of Scotland, as well as of the Free Church and of other Presbyterian communities. Indeed,
no persons enjoy these stories more than ministers themselves. I recollect many years ago travelling
to Perth in the old stage-coach days, and enjoying the society of a Scottish clergyman, who
was a most amusing companion, and full of stories, the quaint humour of which accorded with
his own disposition. When we had come through Glen Farg, my companion pointed out that we were
in the parish of Dron. With much humour he introduced an anecdote of a brother minister not
of a brilliant order of mind, who had terminated in this place a course of appointments in
the Church, the names of which, at least, were of an ominous character for a person of unimaginative
temperament. The worthy man had been brought up at the school of Dunse; had been made assistant
at Dull, a parish near Aberfeldy, in the Presbytery of Weem; and had here ended his days and
his clerical career as minister of Dron.

There can be no doubt that the older school of national clergy supply many of our most amusing
anecdotes; and our pages would suffer deplorably were all the anecdotes taken away which turn
upon their peculiarities of dialect and demeanour. I think it will be found, however, that
upon no class of society has there been a greater change during the last hundred years than
on the Scottish clergy as a body. This, indeed, might, from many circumstances, have been expected.
The improved facilities for locomotion have had effect upon the retirement and isolation of
distant country parishes, the more liberal and extended course of study at Scottish colleges,
the cheaper and wider diffusion of books on general literature, of magazines, newspapers, and
reviews. Perhaps, too, we may add that candidates for the ministry now more generally originate
from the higher educated classes of society. But honour to the memory of Scottish ministers
of the days that are gone!

The Scottish clergy, from having mixed so little with life, were often, no doubt, men of simple
habits and of very childlike notions. The opinions and feelings which they expressed were often
of a cast, which, amongst persons of more experience, would appear to be not always quite consistent
with the clerical character. In them it arose from their having nothing conventional about
them. Thus I have heard of an old bachelor clergyman whose landlady declared he used to express
an opinion of his dinner by the grace which he made to follow. When he had had a good dinner
which pleased him, and a good glass of beer with it, he poured forth the grace, "For the riches
of thy bounty and its blessings we offer our thanks." When he had had poor fare and poor beer,
his grace was, "The least of these thy mercies."

Many examples of the dry, quaint humour of the class occur in these pages, but there could
not be a finer specimen than the instance recorded in the "Annals of the Parish" of the account
given by the minister of his own ordination. The ministers were all assembled for the occasion;
prayers had been offered, discourses delivered, and the time for the actual ordination had
come. The form is for the candidate to kneel down and receive his sacred office by the imposition
of hands, i.e. the laying on of hands by the whole Presbytery. As the attendance of ministers
was large, a number of hands were stretched forth, more than could quite conveniently come
up to the candidate. An old minister, of the quiet jocose turn of mind we speak of, finding
himself thus kept at a little distance, stretched out his walking staff and put it on the young
man's head, with the quiet remark, "That will do! Timmer to timmer"--timber to timber.

Their style of preaching, too was, no doubt often plain and homely. They had not the graces
of elocution or elegance of diction. But many were faithful in their office, and preached Christ
as the poor man's friend and the Saviour of the lowly and the suffering. I have known Scottish
ministers of the old school get into a careless indifferent state of ministration; I have also
known the hoary head of many a Scottish minister go down to the grave a crown of glory, in
his day and generation more honoured than many which had been adorned by a mitre.

FOOTNOTES:

[14] Lying Gilbert.

[15] This anecdote has been illustrated, as taken from these pages, by a very clever sketch
of the Highlander and his admirer, in a curious publication at Liverpool called The Tobacco
Plant, and devoted to the interests of smoking and snuffing.

[16] The truth is, in old English usage "bug" signifies a spectre or anything that is frightful.
Thus in Henry VI., 3d Part, act v. sc. ii.--"For Warwick was a bug that feared us all."

[17] Adds fuel to fire.

[18] As far as I am aware the only place in which it is practised at present (July 1872), is
in the Free Church, Brodick, Arran.

CHAPTER THE SECOND.

SCOTTISH RELIGIOUS FEELINGS AND OBSERVANCES.

Passing from these remarks on the Scottish Clergy of a past day, I would treat the more extensive
subject of RELIGIOUS FEELINGS and RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCES generally with the caution and deference
due to such a question, and I would distinctly premise that there is in my mind no intention
of entering, in this volume, upon those great questions which are connected with certain church
movements amongst us, or with national peculiarities of faith and discipline. It is impossible,
however, to overlook entirely the fact of a gradual relaxation, which has gone on for some
years, of the sterner features of the Calvinistic school of theology--at any rate, of keeping
its theoretic peculiarities more in the background. What we have to notice in these pages are
changes in the feelings with regard to religion and religious observances, which have appeared
upon the exterior of society--the changes which belong to outward habits rather than to internal
feelings. Of such changes many have taken place within my own experience. Scotland has ever
borne the character of a moral and religious country; and the mass of the people are a more
church-going race than the masses of English population. I am not at all prepared to say that
in the middle and lower ranks of life our countrymen have undergone much change in regard to
religious observances. But there can be no question that amongst the upper classes there are
manifestations connected with religion now, which some years ago were not thought of. The attendence
of men on public worship is of itself an example of the change we speak of. I am afraid that
when Walter Scott described Monkbarns as being with difficulty "hounded out" to hear the sermons
of good Mr. Blattergowl, he wrote from a knowledge of the habits of church-going then generally
prevalent among Scottish lairds. The late Bishop Sandford told me that when he first came to
Edinburgh--I suppose fifty years ago--few gentlemen attended church--very few indeed were seen
at the communion--so much so that it was a matter of conversation when a male communicant,
not an aged man, was observed at the table for the first time. Sydney Smith, when preaching
in Edinburgh some forty years ago, seeing how almost exclusively congregations were made up
of ladies, took for his text the verse from the Psalms, "Oh that men would therefore praise
the Lord!" and with that touch of the facetious which marked everything he did, laid the emphasis
on the word "men." Looking round the congregation and saying, "Oh that men would therefore
praise the Lord!" implying that he used the word, not to describe the human species generally,
but the male individuals as distinguished from the female portion. In regard to attendance
by young men, both at church and communion, a marked change has taken place in my own experience.
In fact, there is an attention excited towards church subjects, which, thirty years ago, would
have been hardly credited. Nor is it only in connection with churches and church services that
these changes have been brought forth, but an interest has been raised on the subject from
Bible societies, missionary associations at home and abroad, schools and reformatory institutions,
most of which, as regard active operation, have grown up during fifty years.

Nor should I omit to mention, what I trust may be considered as a change belonging to religious
feeling--viz., that conversation is now conducted without that accompaniment of those absurd
and unmeaning oaths which were once considered an essential embellishment of polite discourse.
I distinctly recollect an elderly gentleman, when describing the opinion of a refined and polished
female upon a particular point, putting into her mouth an unmistakable round oath as the natural
language in which people's sentiments and opinions would be ordinarily conveyed. This is a
change wrought in men's feelings, which all must hail with great pleasure. Putting out of sight
for a moment the sin of such a practice, and the bad influence it must have had upon all emotions
of reverence for the name and attributes of the Divine Being, and the natural effect of profane
swearing, to "harden a' within," we might marvel at the utter folly and incongruity of making
swearing accompany every expression of anger or surprise, or of using oaths as mere expletives
in common discourse. A quaint anecdote, descriptive of such senseless ebullition, I have from
a friend who mentioned the names of parties concerned:--A late Duke of Athole had invited a
well-known character, a writer of Perth, to come up and meet him at Dunkeld for the transaction
of some business. The Duke mentioned the day and hour when he should receive the man of law,
who accordingly came punctually at the appointed time and place. But the Duke had forgotten
the appointment, and gone to the hill, from which he could not return for some hours. A Highlander
present described the Perth writer's indignation, and his mode of showing it by a most elaborate
course of swearing. "But whom did he swear at?" was the inquiry made of the narrator, who replied,
"Oh, he didna sweer at ony thing particular, but juist stude in ta middle of ta road and swoor
at lairge." I have from a friend also an anecdote which shows how entirely at one period the
practice of swearing had become familiar even to female ears when mixed up with the intercourse
of social life. A sister had been speaking of her brother as much addicted to this habit--"Oor
John sweers awfu', and we try to correct him; but," she added in a candid and apologetic tone,
"nae doubt it is a great set aff to conversation." There was something of rather an admiring
character in the description of an outbreak of swearing by a Deeside body. He had been before
the meeting of Justices for some offence against the excise laws, and had been promised some
assistance and countenance by my cousin, the laird of Finzean, who was unfortunately addicted
to the practice in question. The poor fellow had not got off so well as he had expected, and
on giving an account of what took place to a friend, he was asked, "But did not Finzean speak
for you?" "Na," he replied, "he didna say muckle; but oh, he damned bonny!"

This is the place to notice a change which has taken place in regard to some questions of taste
in the building and embellishing of Scottish places of worship. Some years back there was a
great jealousy of ornament in connection with churches and church services, and, in fact, all
such embellishments were considered as marks of a departure from the simplicity of old Scottish
worship,--they were distinctive of Episcopacy as opposed to the severer modes of Presbyterianism.
The late Sir William Forbes used to give an account of a conversation, indicative of this feeling,
which he had overheard between an Edinburgh inhabitant and his friend from the country. They
were passing St. John's, which had just been finished, and the countryman asked, "Whatna kirk
was that?" "Oh," said the townsman, "that is an English chapel," meaning Episcopalian. "Ay,"
said his friend, "there'll be a walth o' images there." But, if unable to sympathise with architectural
church ornament and embellishment, how much less could they sympathise with the performance
of divine service, which included such musical accompaniments as intoning, chanting, and anthems!
On the first introduction of Tractarianism into Scotland, the full choir service had been established
in an Episcopal church, where a noble family had adopted those views, and carried them out
regardless of expense. The lady who had been instrumental in getting up these musical services
was very anxious that a favourite female servant of the family--a Presbyterian of the old school--should
have an opportunity of hearing them; accordingly, she very kindly took her down to church in
the carriage, and on returning asked her what she thought of the music, etc. "Ou, it's verra
bonny, verra bonny; but oh, my lady, it's an awfu' way of spending the Sabbath." The good woman
could only look upon the whole thing as a musical performance. The organ was a great mark of
distinction between Episcopalian and Presbyterian places of worship. I have heard of an old
lady describing an Episcopalian clergyman, without any idea of disrespect, in these terms:--"Oh,
he is a whistle-kirk minister." From an Australian correspondent I have an account of the difference
between an Episcopal minister and a Presbyterian minister, as remarked by an old Scottish lady
of his acquaintance. Being asked in what the difference was supposed to consist, after some
consideration she replied, "Weel, ye see, the Presbyterian minister wears his sark under his
coat, the Episcopal minister wears his sark aboon his coat." Of late years, however, a spirit
of greater tolerance of such things has been growing up amongst us,--a greater tolerance, I
suspect, even of organs and liturgies. In fact, we may say a new era has begun in Scotland
as to church architecture and church ornaments. The use of stained glass in churches--forming
memorial windows for the departed[19], a free use of crosses as architectural ornaments, and
restoration of ancient edifices, indicate a revolution of feeling regarding this question.
Beautiful and expensive churches are rising everywhere, in connection with various denominations.
It is not long since the building or repairing a new church, or the repairing and adapting
an old church, implied in Scotland simply a production of the greatest possible degree of ugliness
and bad taste at the least possible expense, and certainly never included any notion of ornament
in the details. Now, large sums are expended on places of worship, without reference to creed.
First-rate architects are employed. Fine Gothic structures are produced. The rebuilding of
the Greyfriars' Church, the restoration of South Leith Church and of Glasgow Cathedral, the
very bold experiment of adopting a style little known amongst us, the pure Lombard, in a church
for Dr. W.L. Alexander, on George IV. Bridge, Edinburgh; the really splendid Free Churches,
St. Mary's, in Albany Street, and the Barclay Church, Bruntsfield, and many similar cases,
mark the spirit of the times regarding the application of what is beautiful in art to the service
of religion. One might hope that changes such as these in the feelings, tastes, and associations,
would have a beneficial effect in bringing the worshippers themselves into a more genial spirit
of forbearance with each other. A friend of mine used to tell a story of an honest builder's
views of church differences, which was very amusing, and quaintly professional. An English
gentleman, who had arrived in a Scottish country town, was walking about to examine the various
objects which presented themselves, and observed two rather handsome places of worship in course
of erection nearly opposite to each other. He addressed a person, who happened to be the contractor
for the chapels, and asked, "What was the difference between these two places of worship which
were springing up so close to each other?"--meaning, of course, the difference of the theological
tenets of the two congregations. The contractor, who thought only of architectural differences,
innocently replied, "There may be a difference of sax feet in length, but there's no aboon
a few inches in the breadth." Would that all our religious differences could be brought within
so narrow a compass!

The variety of churches in a certain county of Scotland once called forth a sly remark upon
our national tendencies to religious division and theological disputation. An English gentleman
sitting on the box, and observing the great number of places of worship in the aforesaid borough,
remarked to the coachman that there must be a great deal of religious feeling in a town which
produced so many houses of God.

"Na," said the man quietly, "it's no religion, it's curstness," i.e. crabbedness, insinuating
that acerbity of temper, as well as zeal, was occasionally the cause of congregations being
multiplied.

It might be a curious question to consider how far motives founded on mere taste or sentiment
may have operated in creating an interest towards religion, and in making it a more prominent
and popular question than it was in the early portion of the present century. There are in
this country two causes which have combined in producing these effects:--1st. The great disruption
which took place in the Church of Scotland no doubt called forth an attention to the subject
which stirred up the public, and made religion at any rate a topic of deep interest for discussion
and partizanship. Men's minds were not allowed to remain in the torpid condition of a past
generation. 2d. The aesthetic movement in religion, which some years since was made in England,
has, of course, had its influence in Scotland; and many who showed little concern about religion,
whilst it was merely a question of doctrines, of precepts, and of worship, threw themselves
keenly into the contest when it became associated with ceremonial, and music, and high art.
New ecclesiastical associations have been presented to Scottish tastes and feelings. With some
minds, attachment to the church is attachment to her Gregorian tones, jewelled chalices, lighted
candles, embroidered altar-cloths, silver crosses, processions, copes, albs, and chasubles.
But, from whatever cause it proceeds, a great change has taken place in the general interest
excited towards ecclesiastical questions. Religion now has numerous associations with the ordinary
current of human life. In times past it was kept more as a thing apart. There was a false delicacy
which made people shrink from encountering appellations that were usually bestowed upon those
who made a more prominent religious profession than the world at large.

A great change has taken place in this respect with persons of all shades of religious opinions.
With an increased attention to the externals of religion, we believe that in many points the
heart has been more exercised also. Take, as an example, the practice of family prayer. Many
excellent and pious households of the former generation would not venture upon the observance,
I am afraid, because they were in dread of the sneer. There was a foolish application of the
terms "Methodist" "saints," "over-righteous," where the practice was observed. It was to take
up a rather decided position in the neighbourhood; and I can testify, that less than fifty
years ago a family would have been marked and talked of for a usage of which now throughout
the country the exception is rather the unusual circumstance. A little anecdote from recollections
in my own family will furnish a good illustration of a state of feeling on this point now happily
unknown. In a northern town of the east coast, where the earliest recollections of my life
go back, there was usually a detachment of a regiment, who were kindly received and welcomed
to the society, which in the winter months was very full and very gay. There was the usual
measure of dining, dancing, supping, card-playing, and gossiping, which prevailed in country
towns at the time. The officers were of course an object of much interest to the natives, and
their habits were much discussed. A friend was staying in the family who partook a good deal
of the Athenian temperament--viz. delight in hearing and telling some new thing. On one occasion
she burst forth in great excitement with the intelligence that "Sir Nathaniel Duckinfield,
the officer in command of the detachment, had family prayers every morning!" A very near and
dear relative of mine, knowing the tendency of the lady to gossip, pulled her up with the exclamation:
"How can you repeat such things, Miss Ogilvy? nothing in the world but the ill-natured stories
of Montrose!" The remark was made quite innocently, and unconsciously of the bitter satire
it conveyed upon the feeling of the place. The "ill-nature" of these stories was true enough,
because ill-nature was the motive of those who raised them; not because it is an ill-natured
thing of itself to say of a family that they have household worship, but the ill-nature consisted
in their intending to throw out a sneer and a sarcasm upon a subject where all such reflections
are unbecoming and indecorous. It is one of the best proofs of change of habits and associations
on this matter, that the anecdote, exquisite as it is for our purpose, will hardly be understood
by many of our young friends, or, at least, happily has lost much of its force and pungency.

These remarks apply perhaps more especially to the state of religious feeling amongst the upper
classes of society. Though I am not aware of so much change in the religious habits of the
Scottish peasantry, still the elders have yielded much from the sternness of David Deans; and
upon the whole view of the question there have been many and great changes in the Scottish
people during the last sixty years. It could hardly be otherwise, when we consider the increased
facilities of communication between the two countries--a facility which extends to the introduction
of English books upon religious subjects. The most popular and engaging works connected with
the Church of England have now a free circulation in Scotland; and it is impossible that such
productions as the "Christian Year," for example, and many others--whether for good or bad
is not now the question--should not produce their effects upon minds trained in the strictest
school of Calvinistic theology. I should be disposed to extend the boundaries of this division,
and to include under "Religious Feelings and Religious Observances" many anecdotes which belong
perhaps rather indirectly than directly to the subject. There is a very interesting reminiscence,
and one of a sacred character also, which I think will come very suitably under this head.
When I joined the Scottish Episcopal Church, nearly fifty years ago, it was quite customary
for members of our communion to ask for the blessing of their Bishop, and to ask it especially
on any remarkable event in their life, as marriage, loss of friends, leaving home, returning
home, etc.; and it was the custom amongst the old Scottish Episcopalians to give the blessing
in a peculiar form, which had become venerable from its traditionary application by our bishops.
I have myself received it from my bishop, the late good Bishop Walker, and have heard him pronounce
it on others. But whether the custom of asking the bishop's blessing be past or not, the form
I speak of has become a reminiscence, and I feel assured is not known even by some of our own
bishops. I shall give it to my readers as I received it from the family of the late Bishop
Walker of Edinburgh:--

     "God Almighty bless thee with his Holy Spirit;
     Guard thee in thy going out and coming in;
     Keep thee ever in his faith and fear;
     Free from Sin, and safe from Danger."

I have been much pleased with a remark of my friend, the Rev. W. Gillespie of the U.P. Church,
Edinburgh, upon this subject. He writes to me as follows:--"I read with particular interest
the paragraph on the subject of the Bishop's Blessing, for certainly there seems to be in these
days a general disbelief in the efficacy of blessings, and a neglect or disregard of the practice.
If the spirit of God is in good men, as He certainly is, then who can doubt the value and the
efficacy of the blessing which they bestow? I remember being blessed by a very venerable minister,
John Dempster of Denny, while kneeling in his study, shortly before I left this country to
go to China, and his prayer over me then was surely the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous
man. Its effect upon me then and ever since will never be forgotten."

I quite agree with Mr. Gillespie on the point, and think it not a good sign either of our religious
belief or religious feeling that such blessings should become really a matter of reminiscence;
for if we are taught to pray for one another, and if we are taught that the "prayer of the
righteous availeth much," surely we ought to bless one another, and surely the blessing of
those who are venerable in the church from their position, their age, and their piety, may
be expected to avail as an aid and incentive to piety in those who in God's name are so blest.
It has struck me that on a subject closely allied with religious feelings a great change has
taken place in Scotland during a period of less than fifty years--I mean the attention paid
to cemeteries as depositories of the mortal remains of those who have departed. In my early
days I never recollect seeing any efforts made for the embellishment and adornment of our churchyards;
if tolerably secured by fences, enough had been done. The English and Welsh practices of planting
flowers, keeping the turf smooth and dressed over the graves of friends, were quite unknown.
Indeed, I suspect such attention fifty years ago would have been thought by the sterner Presbyterians
as somewhat savouring of superstition. The account given by Sir W. Scott, in "Guy Mannering,"
of an Edinburgh burial-place, was universally applicable to Scottish sepulchres[20]. A very
different state of matters has grown up within the last few years. Cemeteries and churchyards
are now as carefully ornamented in Scotland as in England. Shrubs, flowers, smooth turf, and
neatly-kept gravel walks, are a pleasing accompaniment to head-stones, crosses, and varied
forms of monumental memorials, in freestone, marble, and granite. Nay, more than these, not
unfrequently do we see an imitation of French sentiment, in wreaths of "everlasting" placed
over graves as emblems of immortality; and in more than one of our Edinburgh cemeteries I have
seen these enclosed in glass cases to preserve them from the effects of wind and rain.

In consequence of neglect, the unprotected state of churchyards was evident from the number
of stories in circulation connected with the circumstance of timid and excited passengers going
amongst the tombs of the village. The following, amongst others, has been communicated. The
locale of the story is unknown, but it is told of a weaver who, after enjoying his potations,
pursued his way home through the churchyard, his vision and walking somewhat impaired. As he
proceeded he diverged from the path, and unexpectedly stumbled into a partially made grave.
Stunned for a while, he lay in wonder at his descent, and after some time he got out, but he
had not proceeded much farther when a similar calamity befell him. At this second fall, he
was heard, in a tone of wonder and surprise, to utter the following exclamation, referring
to what he considered the untenanted graves: "Ay! ir ye a' up an' awa?"

The kindly feelings and interest of the pastoral relation always formed a very pleasing intercourse
between minister and people. I have received from an anonymous correspondent an anecdote illustrative
of this happy connection, for which he vouches as authentic:--

John Brown, Burgher minister at Whitburn (son of the commentator, and father of the late Rev.
Dr. John Brown of Edinburgh, and grandfather of the present accomplished M.D. of the same name,
author of "Rab and his Friends," etc.), in the early part of the century was travelling on
a small sheltie[21] to attend the summer sacrament at Haddington. Between Musselburgh and Tranent
he overtook one of his own people. "What are ye daein' here, Janet, and whaur ye gaun in this
warm weather?" "'Deed, sir," quo' Janet, "I'm gaun to Haddington for the occasion[22] an' expeck
to hear ye preach this efternoon." "Very weel, Janet, but whaur ye gaun tae sleep?" "I dinna
ken, sir, but Providence is aye kind, an'll provide a bed." On Mr. Brown jogged, but kindly
thought of his humble follower; accordingly, after service in the afternoon, before pronouncing
the blessing, he said from the pulpit, "Whaur's the auld wifie that followed me frae Whitburn?"
"Here I'm, sir," uttered a shrill voice from a back seat. "Aweel," said Mr. Brown, "I have
fand ye a bed; ye're to sleep wi' Johnnie Fife's lass."

There was at all times amongst the older Scottish peasantry a bold assertion of their religious
opinions, and strong expression of their feelings. The spirit of the Covenanters lingered amongst
the aged people whom I remember, but which time has considerably softened down. We have some
recent authentic instances of this readiness in Scotsmen to bear testimony to their principles:--

A friend has informed me that the late Lord Rutherfurd often told with much interest of a rebuke
which he received from a shepherd, near Bonaly, amongst the Pentlands. He had entered into
conversation with him, and was complaining bitterly of the weather, which prevented him enjoying
his visit to the country, and said hastily and unguardedly, "What a d--d mist!" and then expressed
his wonder how or for what purpose there should have been such a thing created as east wind.
The shepherd, a tall, grim figure, turned sharp round upon him. "What ails ye at the mist,
sir? it weets the sod, it slockens the yowes, and"--adding with much solemnity--"it's God's
wull;" and turned away with lofty indignation. Lord Rutherfurd used to repeat this with much
candour as a fine specimen of a rebuke from a sincere and simple mind.

There was something very striking in the homely, quaint, and severe expressions on religious
subjects which marked the old-fashioned piety of persons shadowed forth in Sir Walter Scott's
Davie Deans. We may add to the rebuke of the shepherd of Bonaly, of Lord Rutherfurd's remark
about the east wind, his answer to Lord Cockburn, the proprietor of Bonaly. He was sitting
on the hill-side with the shepherd, and observing the sheep reposing in the coldest situation,
he observed to him, "John, if I were a sheep, I would lie on the other side of the hill." The
shepherd answered, "Ay, my lord, but if ye had been a sheep ye would hae had mair sense."

Of such men as this shepherd were formed the elders--a class of men who were marked by strong
features of character, and who, in former times, bore a distinguished part in all church matters.

The old Scottish elder was in fact quite as different a character from the modern elder, as
the old Scottish minister was from the modern pastor. These good men were not disposed to hide
their lights, and perhaps sometimes encroached a little upon the office of the minister. A
clergyman had been remarking to one of his elders that he was unfortunately invited to two
funerals on one day, and that they were fixed for the same hour. "Weel, sir," answered the
elder, "if ye'll tak the tane I'll tak the tither."

Some of the elders were great humorists and originals in their way. An elder of the kirk at
Muthill used to manifest his humour and originality by his mode of collecting the alms. As
he went round with the ladle, he reminded such members of the congregation as seemed backward
in their duty, by giving them a poke with the "brod," and making, in an audible whisper, such
remarks as these--"Wife at the braid mailin, mind the puir;" "Lass wi' the braw plaid, mind
the puir," etc., a mode of collecting which marks rather a bygone state of things. But on no
question was the old Scottish disciplinarian, whether elder or not, more sure to raise his
testimony than on anything connected with a desecration of the Sabbath. In this spirit was
the rebuke given to an eminent geologist, when visiting in the Highlands:--The professor was
walking on the hills one Sunday morning, and partly from the effect of habit, and partly from
not adverting to the very strict notions of Sabbath desecration entertained in Ross-shire,
had his pocket hammer in hand, and was thoughtlessly breaking the specimens of minerals he
picked up by the way. Under these circumstances, he was met by an old man steadily pursuing
his way to his church. For some time the patriarch observed the movements of the geologist,
and at length, going up to him, quietly said, "Sir, ye're breaking something there forbye the
stanes!"

The same feeling, under a more fastidious form, was exhibited to a traveller by a Scottish
peasant:--An English artist travelling professionally through Scotland, had occasion to remain
over Sunday in a small town in the north. To while away the time, he walked out a short way
in the environs, where the picturesque ruin of a castle met his eye. He asked a countryman
who was passing to be so good as tell him the name of the castle. The reply was somewhat startling--"It's
no the day to be speerin' sic things!"

A manifestation of even still greater strictness on the subject of Sabbath desecration, I have
received from a relative of the family in which it occurred. About fifty years ago the Hon.
Mrs. Stewart lived in Heriot Row, who had a cook, Jeannie by name, a paragon of excellence.
One Sunday morning when her daughter (afterwards Lady Elton) went into the kitchen, she was
surprised to find a new jack (recently ordered, and which was constructed on the principle
of going constantly without winding up) wholly paralysed and useless. Miss Stewart naturally
inquired what accident had happened to the new jack, as it had stopped. The mystery was soon
solved by Jeannie indignantly exclaiming that "she was nae gaeing to hae the fule thing clocking
and rinning about in her kitchen a' the blessed Sabbath day."

There sometimes appears to have been in our countrymen an undue preponderance of zeal for Sabbath
observance as compared with the importance attached to other religious duties, and especially
as compared with the virtue of sobriety. The following dialogue between Mr. Macnee of Glasgow,
the celebrated artist, and an old Highland acquaintance whom he had met with unexpectedly,
will illustrate the contrast between the severity of judgment passed upon treating the Sabbath
with levity and the lighter censure attached to indulgence in whisky. Mr. Macnee begins, "Donald,
what brought you here?" "Ou, weel, sir, it was a baad place yon; they were baad folk--but they're
a God-fearin' set o' folk here!" "Well, Donald," said Mr. M., "I'm glad to hear it." "Ou ay,
sir, 'deed are they; an' I'll gie ye an instance o't. Last Sabbath, just as the kirk was skailin,'
there was a drover chield frae Dumfries comin' along the road whustlin,' an' lookin' as happy
as if it was ta middle o' ta week; weel, sir, oor laads is a God-fearin' set o' laads, an'
they were just comin' oot o' the kirk--'od they yokit upon him, an' a'most killed him!" Mr.
M., to whom their zeal seemed scarcely sufficiently well directed to merit his approbation,
then asked Donald whether it had been drunkenness that induced the depravity of his former
neighbours? "Weel, weel, sir," said Donald, with some hesitation, "may-be; I'll no say but
it micht." "Depend upon it," said Mr. M., "it's a bad thing whisky." "Weel, weel, sir," replied
Donald, "I'll no say but it may;" adding in a very decided tone--"speeciallie baad whusky!"

I do not know any anecdote which illustrates in a more striking and natural manner the strong
feeling which exists in the Scottish mind on this subject. At a certain time, the hares in
the neighbourhood of a Scottish burgh had, from the inclemency of the season or from some other
cause, become emboldened more than usual to approach the dwelling-places of men; so much so
that on one Sunday morning a hare was seen skipping along the street as the people were going
to church. An old man, spying puss in this unusual position, significantly remarked, "Ay, yon
beast kens weel it is the Sabbath-day;" taking it for granted that no one in the place would
be found audacious enough to hurt the animal on a Sunday.

Lady Macneil supplies an excellent pendant to Miss Stewart's story about the jack going on
the Sunday. Her henwife had got some Dorking fowls, and on Lady M. asking if they were laying
many eggs, she replied, with great earnestness, "Indeed my leddy, they lay every day, no' excepting
the blessed Sabbath."

There were, however, old persons at that time who were not quite so orthodox on the point of
Sabbath observance; and of these a lady residing in Dumfries was known often to employ her
wet Sundays in arranging her wardrobe. "Preserve us!" she said on one occasion, "anither gude
Sunday! I dinna ken whan I'll get thae drawers redd up."

In connection with the awful subject of death and all its concomitants, it has been often remarked
that the older generation of Scottish people used to view the circumstances belonging to the
decease of their nearest and dearest friends with a coolness which does not at first sight
seem consistent with their deep and sincere religious impressions. Amongst the peasantry this
was sometimes manifested in an extraordinary and startling manner. I do not believe that those
persons had less affection for their friends than a corresponding class in England, but they
had less awe of the concomitants of death, and approached them with more familiarity. For example,
I remember long ago at Fasque, my sister-in-law visiting a worthy and attached old couple,
of whom the husband, Charles Duncan, who had been gardener at Fasque for above thirty years
was evidently dying. He was sitting on a common deal chair, and on my sister proposing to send
down for his use an old arm-chair which she recollected was laid up in a garret, his wife exclaimed
against such a needless trouble: "Hout, my leddy, what would he be duin' wi' an arm-chair?
he's just deein' fast awa." I have two anecdotes, illustrative of the same state of feeling,
from a lady of ancient Scottish family accustomed to visit her poor dependants on the property,
and to notice their ways. She was calling at a decent cottage, and found the occupant busy
carefully ironing out some linens. The lady remarked, "Those are fine linens you have got there,
Janet." "Troth, mem," was the reply, "they're just the gudeman's deed claes, and there are
nane better i' the parish." On another occasion, when visiting an excellent woman, to condole
with her on the death of her nephew, with whom she had lived, and whose loss must have been
severely felt by her, she remarked, "What a nice white cap you have got, Margaret." "Indeed,
mem, ay, sae it is; for ye see the gude lad's winding sheet was ower lang, and I cut aff as
muckle as made twa bonny mutches" (caps).

There certainly was a quaint and familiar manner in which sacred and solemn subjects were referred
to by the older Scottish race, who did not mean to be irreverent, but who no doubt appeared
so to a more refined but not really a more religious generation.

It seems to me that this plainness of speech arose in part from the sincerity of their belief
in all the circumstances of another condition of being. They spoke of things hereafter as positive
certainties, and viewed things invisible through the same medium as they viewed things present.
The following is illustrative of such a state of mind, and I am assured of its perfect authenticity
and literal correctness:--"Joe M'Pherson and his wife lived in Inverness. They had two sons,
who helped their father in his trade of a smith. They were industrious and careful, but not
successful. The old man had bought a house, leaving a large part of the price unpaid. It was
the ambition of his life to pay off that debt, but it was too much for him, and he died in
the struggle. His sons kept on the business with the old industry, and with better fortune.
At last their old mother fell sick, and told her sons she was dying, as in truth she was. The
elder son said to her, 'Mother, you'll soon be with my father; no doubt you'll have much to
tell him; but dinna forget this, mother, mind ye, tell him the house is freed. He'll be glad
to hear that.'"

A similar feeling is manifest in the following conversation, which, I am assured, is authentic:--At
Hawick the people used to wear wooden clogs, which make a clanking noise on the pavement. A
dying old woman had some friends by her bedside, who said to her, "Weel, Jenny, ye are gaun
to heeven, an' gin you should see oor folk, you can tell them that we're a' weel." To which
Jenny replied, "Weel, gin I should see them I'se tell them, but you manna expect that I am
to gang clank clanking through heevan looking for your folk."

But of all stories of this class, I think the following deathbed conversation between a Scottish
husband and wife is about the richest specimen of a dry Scottish matter-of-fact view of a very
serious question:--An old shoemaker in Glasgow was sitting by the bedside of his wife, who
was dying. She took him by the hand. "Weel, John, we're gawin to part. I hae been a gude wife
to you, John." "Oh, just middling, just middling, Jenny," said John, not disposed to commit
himself. "John," says she, "ye maun promise to bury me in the auld kirk-yard at Stra'von, beside
my mither. I couldna rest in peace among unco folk, in the dirt and smoke o' Glasgow." "Weel,
weel, Jenny, my woman," said John soothingly, "we'll just pit you in the Gorbals first, and
gin ye dinna lie quiet, we'll try you sine in Stra'von."

The same unimaginative and matter-of-fact view of things connected with the other world extended
to a very youthful age, as in the case of a little boy who, when told of heaven, put the question,
"An' will faather be there?" His instructress answered, "of course, she hoped he would be there;"
to which he sturdily at once replied, "Then I'll no gang."

We might apply these remarks in some measure to the Scottish pulpit ministrations of an older
school, in which a minuteness of detail and a quaintness of expression were quite common, but
which could not now be tolerated. I have two specimens of such antiquated language, supplied
by correspondents, and I am assured they are both genuine.

The first is from a St. Andrews professor, who is stated to be a great authority in such narratives.

In one of our northern counties, a rural district had its harvest operations affected by continuous
rains. The crops being much laid, wind was desired in order to restore them to a condition
fit for the sickle. A minister, in his Sabbath services, expressed their want in prayer as
follows:--"O Lord, we pray thee to send us wind; no a rantin' tantin' tearin' wind, but a noohin'
(noughin?) soughin' winnin' wind." More expressive words than these could not be found in any
language.

The other story relates to a portion of the Presbyterian service on sacramental occasions,
called "fencing the tables," i.e. prohibiting the approach of those who were unworthy to receive.

This fencing of the tables was performed in the following effective manner by an old divine,
whose flock transgressed the third commandment, not in a gross and loose manner, but in its
minor details:--"I debar all those who use such minced oaths as faith! troth! losh! gosh! and
lovanendie!"

These men often showed a quiet vein of humour in their prayers, as in the case of the old minister
of the Canongate, who always prayed, previous to the meeting of the General Assembly, that
the Assembly might be so guided as "no to do ony harm."

A circumstance connected with Scottish church discipline has undergone a great change in my
time--I mean the public censure from the pulpit, in the time of divine service, of offenders
previously convicted before the minister and his kirk-session. This was performed by the guilty
person standing up before the congregation on a raised platform, called the cutty stool, and
receiving a rebuke. I never saw it done, but have heard in my part of the country of the discipline
being enforced occasionally. Indeed, I recollect an instance where the rebuke was thus administered
and received under circumstances of a touching character, and which made it partake of the
moral sublime. The daughter of the minister had herself committed an offence against moral
purity, such as usually called forth this church censure. The minister peremptorily refused
to make her an exception to his ordinary practice. His child stood up in the congregation,
and received, from her agonised father, a rebuke similar to that administered to other members
of his congregation for a like offence. The spirit of the age became unfavourable to the practice.
The rebuke on the cutty stool, like the penance in a white sheet in England, went out of use,
and the circumstance is now a matter of "reminiscence." I have received some communications
on the subject, which bear upon this point; and I subjoin the following remarks from a kind
correspondent, a clergyman, to whom I am largely indebted, as indicating the great change which
has taken place in this matter.

"Church discipline," he writes, "was much more vigorously enforced in olden time than it is
now. A certain couple having been guilty of illicit intercourse, and also within the forbidden
degrees of consanguinity, appeared before the Presbytery of Lanark, and made confession in
sackcloth. They were ordered to return to their own session, and to stand at the kirk-door,
barefoot and barelegged, from the second bell to the last, and thereafter in the public place
of repentance; and, at direction of the session, thereafter to go through the whole kirks of
the presbytery, and to satisfy them in like manner. If such penance were now enforced for like
offences, I believe the registration books of many parishes in Scotland would become more creditable
in certain particulars than they unfortunately are at the present time."

But there was a less formidable ecclesiastical censure occasionally given by the minister from
the pulpit against lesser misdemeanours, which took place under his own eye, such as levity
of conduct or sleeping in church. A most amusing specimen of such censure was once inflicted
by the minister upon his own wife for an offence not in our day visited with so heavy a penalty.
The clergyman had observed one of his flock asleep during his sermon. He paused, and called
him to order. "Jeems Robson, ye are sleepin'; I insist on your wauking when God's word is preached
to ye." "Weel, sir, you may look at your ain seat, and ye'll see a sleeper forbye me," answered
Jeems, pointing to the clergyman's lady in the minister's pew. "Then, Jeems," said the minister,
"when ye see my wife asleep again, haud up your hand." By and by the arm was stretched out,
and sure enough the fair lady was caught in the act. Her husband solemnly called upon her to
stand up and receive the censure due to her offence. He thus addressed her:--"Mrs. B., a'body
kens that when I got ye for my wife, I got nae beauty; yer frien's ken that I got nae siller;
and if I dinna get God's grace, I shall hae a puir bargain indeed."

The quaint and original humour of the old Scottish minister came out occasionally in the more
private services of his vocation as well as in church. As the whole service, whether for baptisms
or marriages, is supplied by the clergyman officiating, there is more scope for scenes between
the parties present than at similar ministrations by a prescribed form. Thus, a late minister
of Caithness, when examining a member of his flock, who was a butcher, in reference to the
baptism of his child, found him so deficient in what he considered the needful theological
knowledge, that he said to him, "Ah, Sandy, I doubt ye're no fit to haud up the bairn." Sandy,
conceiving that reference was made not to spiritual but to physical incapacity, answered indignantly,
"Hout, minister, I could haud him up an he were a twa-year-auld stirk[23]." A late humorous
old minister, near Peebles, who had strong feelings on the subject of matrimonial happiness,
thus prefaced the ceremony by an address to the parties who came to him:--"My friends, marriage
is a blessing to a few, a curse to many, and a great uncertainty to all. Do ye venture?" After
a pause, he repeated with great emphasis, "Do ye venture?" No objection being made to the venture,
he then said, "Let's proceed."

The old Scottish hearers were very particular on the subject of their minister's preaching
old sermons; and to repeat a discourse which they could recollect was always made a subject
of animadversion by those who heard it. A beadle, who was a good deal of a wit in his way,
gave a sly hit in his pretended defence of his minister on the question. As they were proceeding
from church, the minister observed the beadle had been laughing as if he had triumphed over
some of the parishioners with whom he had been in conversation. On asking the cause of this,
he received for answer, "Dod, sir, they were saying ye had preached an auld sermon to-day,
but I tackled them, for I tauld them it was no an auld sermon, for the minister had preached
it no sax months syne."

I remember the minister of Banchory, Mr. Gregory, availed himself of the feelings of his people
on this subject for the purpose of accomplishing a particular object. During the building of
the new church the service had to be performed in a schoolroom, which did not nearly hold the
congregation. The object was to get part of the parish to attend in the morning, and part in
the afternoon. Mr. Gregory prevented those who had attended in the morning from returning in
the afternoon by just giving them, as he said, "cauld kail het again."

It is somewhat remarkable, however, that, notwithstanding this feeling in the matter of a repetition
of old sermons, there was amongst a large class of Scottish preachers of a former day such
a sameness of subject as really sometimes made it difficult to distinguish the discourse of
one Sunday from amongst others. These were entirely doctrinal, and however they might commence,
after the opening or introduction hearers were certain to find the preacher falling gradually
into the old channel. The fall of man in Adam, his restoration in Christ, justification by
faith, and the terms of the new covenant, formed the staple of each sermon, and without which
it was not in fact reckoned complete as an orthodox exposition of Christian doctrine. Without
omitting the essentials of Christian instruction, preachers now take a wider view of illustrating
and explaining the gospel scheme of salvation and regeneration, without constant recurrence
to the elemental and fundamental principles of the faith. From my friend Dr. Cook of Haddington
(who it is well known has a copious stock of old Scotch traditionary anecdotes) I have an admirable
illustration of this state of things as regards pulpit instruction.

"Much of the preaching of the Scotch clergy," Dr. Cook observes, "in the last century, was
almost exclusively doctrinal--the fall: the nature, the extent, and the application of the
remedy. In the hands of able men, no doubt, there might be much variety of exposition, but
with weaker or indolent men preaching extempore, or without notes, it too often ended in a
weekly repetition of what had been already said. An old elder of mine, whose recollection might
reach back from sixty to seventy years, said to me one day, 'Now-a-days, people make a work
if a minister preach the same sermon over again in the course of two or three years. When I
was a boy, we would have wondered if old Mr. W---- had preached anything else than what we
heard the Sunday before.' My old friend used to tell of a clergyman who had held forth on the
broken covenant till his people longed for a change. The elders waited on him to intimate their
wish. They were examined on their knowledge of the subject, found deficient, rebuked, and dismissed,
but after a little while they returned to the charge, and the minister gave in. Next Lord's
day he read a large portion of the history of Joseph and his brethren, as the subject of a
lecture. He paraphrased it, greatly, no doubt, to the detriment of the original, but much to
the satisfaction of his people, for it was something new. He finished the paraphrase, 'and
now,' says he, 'my friends, we shall proceed to draw some lessons and inferences; and, 1st,
you will observe that the sacks of Joseph's brethren were ripit, and in them was found the
cup; so your sacks will be ripit at the day of judgment, and the first thing found in them
will be the broken covenant;' and having gained this advantage, the sermon went off into the
usual strain, and embodied the usual heads of elementary dogmatic theology."

In connection with this topic, I have a communication from a correspondent, who remarks--The
story about the minister and his favourite theme, "the broken covenant," reminds me of one
respecting another minister whose staple topics of discourse were "Justification, Adoption,
and Sanctification." Into every sermon he preached, he managed, by hook or by crook, to force
these three heads, so that his general method of handling every text was not so much expositio
as impositio. He was preaching on these words--"Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he a pleasant child?"
and he soon brought the question into the usual formula by adding, Ephraim was a pleasant child--first,
because he was a justified child; second, because he was an adopted child; and third, because
he was a sanctified child.

It should be remembered, however, that the Scottish peasantry themselves--I mean those of the
older school--delighted in expositions of doctrinal subjects, and in fact were extremely jealous
of any minister who departed from their high standard of orthodox divinity, by selecting subjects
which involved discussions of strictly moral or practical questions. It was condemned under
the epithet of legal preaching; in other words, it was supposed to preach the law as independent
of the gospel. A worthy old clergyman having, upon the occasion of a communion Monday, taken
a text of such a character, was thus commented on by an ancient dame of the congregation, who
was previously acquainted with his style of discourse:--"If there's an ill text in a' the Bible,
that creetur's aye sure to tak it."

The great change--the great improvement, I would say--which has taken place during the last
half-century in the feelings and practical relations of religion with social life is, that
it has become more diffused through all ranks and all characters. Before that period many good
sort of people were afraid of making their religious views very prominent, and were always
separated from those who did. Persons who made a profession at all beyond the low standard
generally adopted in society were marked out as objects of fear or of distrust. The anecdote
at page 65 regarding the practice of family prayer fully proves this. Now religious people
and religion itself are not kept aloof from the ordinary current of men's thoughts and actions.
There is no such marked line as used to be drawn round persons who make a decided profession
of religion. Christian men and women have stepped over the line, and, without compromising
their Christian principle, are not necessarily either morose, uncharitable, or exclusive. The
effects of the old separation were injurious to men's minds. Religion was with many associated
with puritanism, with cant, and unfitness for the world. The difference is marked also in the
style of sermons prevalent at the two periods. There were sermons of two descriptions--viz.,
sermons by "moderate" clergy, of a purely moral or practical character; and sermons purely
doctrinal, from those who were known as "evangelical" ministers. Hence arose an impression,
and not unnaturally, on many minds, that an almost exclusive reference to doctrinal subjects,
and a dread of upholding the law, and of enforcing its more minute details, were not favourable
to the cause of moral rectitude and practical holiness of life. This was hinted in a sly way
by a young member of the kirk to his father, a minister of the severe and high Calvinistic
school. Old Dr. Lockhart of Glasgow was lamenting one day, in the presence of his son John,
the fate of a man who had been found guilty of immoral practices, and the more so that he was
one of his own elders. "Well, father," remarked his son, "you see what you've driven him to."
In our best Scottish preaching at the present day no such distinction is visible.

The same feeling came forth with much point and humour on an occasion referred to in "Carlyle's
Memoirs." In a company where John Home and David Hume were present, much wonder was expressed
what could have induced a clerk belonging to Sir William Forbes' bank to abscond, and embezzle
£900. "I know what it was," said Home to the historian; "for when he was taken there was found
in his pocket a volume of your philosophical works and Boston's 'Fourfold State'"--a hit, 1st,
at the infidel, whose principles would have undermined Christianity; and 2d, a hit at the Church,
which he was compelled to leave on account of his having written the tragedy of Douglas.

I can myself recollect an obsolete ecclesiastical custom, and which was always practised in
the church of Fettercairn during my boyish days--viz., that of the minister bowing to the heritors
in succession who occupied the front gallery seats; and I am assured that this bowing from
the pulpit to the principal heritor or heritors after the blessing had been pronounced was
very common in rural parishes till about forty years ago, and perhaps till a still later period.
And when heritors chanced to be pretty equally matched, there was sometimes an unpleasant contest
as to who was entitled to the precedence in having the first bow. A case of this kind once
occurred in the parish of Lanark, which was carried so far as to be laid before the Presbytery;
but they, not considering themselves "competent judges of the points of honour and precedency
among gentlemen, and to prevent all inconveniency in these matters in the future, appointed
the minister to forbear bowing to the lairds at all from the pulpit for the time to come;"
and they also appointed four of their number "to wait upon the gentlemen, to deal with them,
for bringing them to condescend to submit hereunto, for the success of the gospel and the peace
of the parish."

In connection with this subject, we may mention a ready and complimentary reply once made by
the late Reverend Dr. Wightman of Kirkmahoe, on being rallied for his neglecting this usual
act of courtesy one Sabbath in his own church. The heritor who was entitled to and always received
this token of respect, was Mr. Miller, proprietor of Dalswinton. One Sabbath the Dalswinton
pew contained a bevy of ladies, but no gentlemen, and the Doctor--perhaps because he was a
bachelor and felt a delicacy in the circumstances--omitted the usual salaam in their direction.
A few days after, meeting Miss Miller, who was widely famed for her beauty, and who afterwards
became Countess of Mar, she rallied him, in presence of her companions, for not bowing to her
from the pulpit on the previous Sunday, and requested an explanation; when the good Doctor
immediately replied--"I beg your pardon, Miss Miller, but you surely know that angel-worship
is not allowed in the Church of Scotland;" and lifting his hat, he made a low bow, and passed on.

Scottish congregations, in some parts of the country, contain an element in their composition
quite unknown in English churches. In pastoral parts of the country, it was an established
practice for each shepherd to bring his faithful collie dog--at least it was so some years
ago. In a district of Sutherland, where the population is very scanty, the congregations are
made up one-half of dogs, each human member having his canine companion. These dogs sit out
the Gaelic services and sermon with commendable patience, till towards the end of the last
psalm, when there is a universal stretching and yawning, and all are prepared to scamper out,
barking in a most excited manner whenever the blessing is commenced. The congregation of one
of these churches determined that the service should close in a more decorous manner, and steps
were taken to attain this object. Accordingly, when a stranger clergyman was officiating, he
found the people all sitting when he was about to pronounce the blessing. He hesitated, and
paused, expecting them to rise, till an old shepherd, looking up to the pulpit, said, "Say
awa', sir; we're a' sittin' to cheat the dowgs."

There must have been some curious specimens of Scottish humour brought out at the examinations
or catechisings by ministers of the flock before the administrations of the communion. Thus,
with reference to human nature before the fall, a man was asked, "What kind of man was Adam?"
"Ou, just like ither fouk." The minister insisted on having a more special description of the
first man, and pressed for more explanation. "Weel," said the catechumen, "he was just like
Joe Simson the horse-couper." "How so?" asked the minister. "Weel, naebody got onything by
him, and mony lost."

A lad had come for examination previous to his receiving his first communion. The pastor, knowing
that his young friend was not very profound in his theology, and not wishing to discourage
him, or keep him from the table unless compelled to do so, began by asking what he thought
a safe question, and what would give him confidence. So he took the Old Testament, and asked
him, in reference to the Mosaic law, how many commandments there were. After a little thought,
he put his answer in the modest form of a supposition, and replied, cautiously, "Aiblins[24]
a hunner." The clergyman was vexed, and told him such ignorance was intolerable, that he could
not proceed in examination, and that the youth must wait and learn more; so he went away. On
returning home he met a friend on his way to the manse, and on learning that he too was going
to the minister for examination, shrewdly asked him, "Weel, what will ye say noo if the minister
speers hoo mony commandments there are?" "Say! why, I shall say ten to be sure." To which the
other rejoined, with great triumph, "Ten! Try ye him wi' ten! I tried him wi' a hunner, and
he wasna satisfeed." Another answer from a little girl was shrewd and reflective. The question
was, "Why did the Israelites make a golden calf?" "They hadna as muckle siller as wad mak a coo."

A kind correspondent has sent me, from personal knowledge, an admirable pendant to stones of
Scottish child acuteness and shrewd observation. A young lady friend of his, resident in a
part of Ayrshire rather remote from any very satisfactory administration of the gospel, is
in the habit of collecting the children of the neighbourhood on Sundays at the "big hoose,"
for religious instruction. On one occasion the class had repeated the paraphrase of the Lord's
Prayer, which contains these lines--

     "Give us this day our daily bread,
      And raiment fit provide."

There being no question as to what "daily bread" was, the teacher proceeded to ask: "What do
you understand by 'raiment fit,' or as we might say, 'fit raiment?'" For a short time the class
remained puzzled at the question; but at last one little girl sung out "stockings and shune."
The child knew that "fit," was Scotch for feet, so her natural explanation of the phrase was
equivalent to "feet raiment," or "stockings and shune," as she termed it.

On the point of changes in religious feelings there comes within the scope of these Reminiscences
a character in Aberdeenshire, which has now gone out--I mean the popular and universally well-received
Roman Catholic priest. Although we cannot say that Scotland is a more PROTESTANT nation than
it was in past days, still religious differences, and strong prejudices, seem at the present
time to draw a more decided line of separation between the priest and his Protestant countrymen.
As examples of what is past, I would refer to the case of a genial Romish bishop in Ross-shire.
It is well known that private stills were prevalent in the Highlands fifty or sixty years ago,
and no one thought there was any harm in them. This good bishop, whose name I forget, was (as
I heard the late W. Mackenzie of Muirton assure a party at Dunrobin Castle) several years previously
a famous hand at brewing a good glass of whisky, and that he distributed his mountain-dew with
a liberal and impartial hand alike to Catholic and to Protestant friends. Of this class, I
recollect, certainly forty-five years ago, Priest Gordon, a genuine Aberdonian, and a man beloved
by all, rich and poor. He was a sort of chaplain to Menzies of Pitfodels, and visited in all
the country families round Aberdeen. I remember once his being at Banchory Lodge, and thus
apologising to my aunt for going out of the room:--"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Forbes, for leaving
you, but I maun just gae doun to the garden and say my bit wordies"--these "bit wordies" being
in fact the portion of the Breviary which he was bound to recite. So easily and pleasantly
were those matters then referred to.

The following, however, is a still richer illustration, and I am assured it is genuine:--"Towards
the end of the last century, a worthy Roman Catholic clergyman, well known as 'Priest Matheson,'
and universally respected in the district, had charge of a mission in Aberdeenshire, and for
a long time made his journeys on a piebald pony, the priest and his 'pyet shelty' sharing an
affectionate recognition wherever they came. On one occasion, however, he made his appearance
on a steed of a different description, and passing near a Seceding meeting-house, he forgathered
with the minister, who, after the usual kindly greetings, missing the familiar pony, said,
'Ou, Priest! fat's come o' the auld Pyet? 'He's deid, minister.' 'Weel, he was an auld faithfu'
servant, and ye wad nae doot gie him the offices o' the church?' 'Na, minister,' said his friend,
not quite liking this allusion to his priestly offices, 'I didna dee that, for ye see he turned
Seceder afore he dee'd, an' I buried him like a beast.' He then rode quietly away. This worthy
man, however, could, when occasion required, rebuke with seriousness as well as point. Always
a welcome guest at the houses of both clergy and gentry, he is said on one occasion to have
met with a laird whose hospitality he had thought it proper to decline, and on being asked
the reason for the interruption of his visits, answered, 'Ye ken, an' I ken; but, laird, God
kens!'"

One question connected with religious feeling, and the manifestation of religious feeling,
has become a more settled point amongst us, since fifty years have expired. I mean the question
of attendance by clergymen on theatrical representations. Dr. Carlyle had been prosecuted before
the General Assembly in 1757 for being present at the performance of the tragedy of Douglas,
written by his friend John Home. He was acquitted, however, and writes thus on the subject
in his Memoirs:--

"Although the clergy in Edinburgh and its neighbourhood had abstained from the theatre because
it gave offence, yet the more remote clergymen, when occasionally in town, had almost universally
attended the play-house. It is remarkable that in the year 1784, when the great actress Mrs.
Siddons first appeared in Edinburgh, during the sitting of the General Assembly, that court
was obliged to fix all its important business for the alternate days when she did not act,
as all the younger members, clergy as well as laity, took their stations in the theatre on
those days by three in the afternoon."

Drs. Robertson and Blair, although they cultivated the acquaintance of Mrs. Siddons in private,
were amongst those clergymen, referred to by Dr. Carlyle, who abstained from attendance in
the theatre; but Dr. Carlyle states that they regretted not taking the opportunity of witnessing
a display of her talent, and of giving their sanction to the theatre as a place of recreation.
Dr. Carlyle evidently considered it a narrow-minded intolerance and bigoted fanaticism that
clergymen should be excluded from that amusement. At a period far later than 1784, the same
opinion prevailed in some quarters. I recollect when such indulgence on the part of clergymen
was treated with much leniency, especially for Episcopalian clergy. I do not mean to say that
there was anything like a general feeling in favour of clerical theatrical attendance; but
there can be no question of a feeling far less strict than what exists in our own time. As
I have said, thirty-six years ago some clergymen went to the theatre; and a few years before
that, when my brothers and I were passing through Edinburgh, in going backwards and forwards
to school, at Durham, with our tutor, a licentiate of the Established Church of Scotland, and
who afterwards attained considerable eminence in the Free Church, we certainly went with him
to the theatre there, and at Durham very frequently. I feel quite assured, however, that no
clergyman could expect to retain the respect of his people or of the public, of whom it was
known that he frequently or habitually attended theatrical representations. It is so understood.
I had opportunities of conversing with the late Mr. Murray of the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh,
and with Mr. Charles Kean, on the subject. Both admitted the fact, and certainly if any men
of the profession could have removed the feeling from the public mind, these were the men to
have done it.

There is a phase of religious observances which has undergone a great change amongst us within
fifty years--I mean the services and circumstances connected with the administration of the
Holy Communion. When these occurred in a parish they were called "occasions," and the great
interest excited by these sacramental solemnities may be gathered from "Peter's Letters," "The
Annals of the Parish," and Burns' "Holy Fair." Such ceremonials are now conducted, I believe,
just as the ordinary church services. Some years back they were considered a sort of preaching
matches. Ministers vied with each other in order to bear away the bell in popularity, and hearers
embraced the opportunity of exhibiting to one another their powers of criticism on what they
heard and saw. In the parish of Urr in Galloway, on one sacramental occasion, some of the assistants
invited were eminent ministers in Edinburgh; Dr. Scot of St. Michael's, Dumfries, was the only
local one who was asked, and he was, in his own sphere, very popular as a preacher. A brother
clergyman, complimenting him upon the honour of being so invited, the old bald-headed divine
modestly replied, "Gude bless you, man, what can I do? They are a' han' wailed[25] this time;
I need never show face among them." "Ye're quite mista'en," was the soothing encouragement;
"tak' your Resurrection (a well-known sermon used for such occasions by him), an I'll lay my
lug ye'll beat every clute o' them." The Doctor did as suggested, and exerted himself to the
utmost, and it appears he did not exert himself in vain. A batch of old women, on their way
home after the conclusion of the services, were overheard discussing the merits of the several
preachers who had that day addressed them from the tent. "Leeze me abune them a'," said one
of the company, who had waxed warm in the discussion, "for yon auld clear-headed (bald) man,
that said, 'Raphael sings an' Gabriel strikes his goolden harp, an' a' the angels clap their
wings wi' joy.' O but it was gran', it just put me in min' o' our geese at Dunjarg when they
turn their nebs to the south an' clap their wings when they see the rain's comin' after lang
drooth."

There is a subject closely allied with the religious feelings of a people, and that is the
subject of their superstitions. To enter upon that question, in a general view, especially
in reference to the Highlands, would not be consistent with our present purpose, but I am induced
to mention the existence of a singular superstition regarding swine which existed some years
ago among the lower orders of the east coast of Fife. I can observe, in my own experience,
a great change to have taken place amongst Scotch people generally on this subject. The old
aversion to the "unclean animal" still lingers in the Highlands, but seems in the Lowland districts
to have yielded to a sense of its thrift and usefulness[26]. The account given by my correspondent
of the Fife swinophobia is as follows:--

Among the many superstitious notions and customs prevalent among the lower orders of the fishing
towns on the east coast of Fife, till very recently, that class entertained a great horror
of swine, and even at the very mention of the word. If that animal crossed their path when
about to set out on a sea voyage, they considered it so unlucky an omen that they would not
venture off. A clergyman of one of these fishing villages having mentioned the superstition
to a clerical friend, and finding that he was rather incredulous on the subject, in order to
convince him told him he would allow him an opportunity of testing the truth of it by allowing
him to preach for him the following day. It was arranged that his friend was to read the chapter
relating to the herd of swine into which the evil spirits were cast. Accordingly, when the
first verse was read, in which the unclean beast was mentioned, a slight commotion was observable
among the audience, each one of them putting his or her hand on any near piece of iron--a nail
on the seat or book-board, or to the nails on their shoes. At the repetition of the word again
and again, more commotion was visible, and the words "cauld airn" (cold iron) the antidote
to this baneful spell, were heard issuing from various corners of the church. And finally,
on his coming over the hated word again, when the whole herd ran violently down the bank into
the sea, the alarmed parishioners, irritated beyond bounds, rose and all left the church in a body.

It is some time now, however, since the Highlanders have begun to appreciate the thrift and
comfort of swine-keeping and swine-killing. A Scottish minister had been persuaded by the laird
to keep a pig, and the gudewife had been duly instructed in the mysteries of black puddings,
pork chops, and pig's head. "Oh!" said the minister, "nae doubt there's a hantle o' miscellawneous
eating aboot a pig."

Amongst a people so deeply impressed with the great truths of religion, and so earnest in their
religious profession, any persons whose principles were known to be of an infidel character
would naturally be looked on with abhorrence and suspicion. There is a story traditionary in
Edinburgh regarding David Hume, which illustrates this feeling in a very amusing manner, and
which, I have heard it said, Hume himself often narrated. The philosopher had fallen from the
path into the swamp at the back of the Castle, the existence of which I recollect hearing of
from old persons forty years ago. He fairly stuck fast, and called to a woman who was passing,
and begged her assistance. She passed on apparently without attending to the request; at his
earnest entreaty, however, she came where he was, and asked him, "Are na ye Hume the Atheist?"
"Well, well, no matter," said Hume; "Christian charity commands you to do good to every one."
"Christian charity here, or Christian charity there," replied the woman, "I'll do naething
for you till ye turn a Christian yoursell'--ye maun repeat the Lord's Prayer and the Creed,
or faith I'll let ye grafel[27] there as I fand ye." The historian, really afraid for his life,
rehearsed the required formulas.

Notwithstanding the high character borne for so many years by our countrymen as a people, and
as specially attentive to all religious observances, still there can be no doubt that there
has sprung up amongst the inhabitants of our crowded cities, wynds, and closes, a class of
persons quite unknown in the old Scottish times. It is a great, difficulty to get them to attend
divine worship at all, and their circumstances combine to break off all associations with public
services. Their going to church becomes a matter of persuasion and of missionary labour.

A lady, who is most active in visiting the houses of these outcasts from the means of grace,
gives me an amusing instance of self-complacency arising from performance of the duty. She
was visiting in the West Port, not far from the church established by my illustrious friend
the late Dr. Chalmers. Having asked a poor woman if she ever attended there for divine service--"Ou
ay," she replied; "there's a man ca'd Chalmers preaches there, and I whiles gang in and hear
him, just to encourage him, puir body!"

From the religious opinions of a people, the transition is natural to their political partialities.
One great political change has passed over Scotland, which none now living can be said to have
actually witnessed; but they remember those who were contemporaries of the anxious scenes of
'45, and many of us have known determined and thorough Jacobites. The poetry of that political
period still remains, but we hear only as pleasant songs those words and melodies which stirred
the hearts and excited the deep enthusiasm of a past generation. Jacobite anecdotes also are
fading from our knowledge. To many young persons they are unknown. Of these stories illustrative
of Jacobite feelings and enthusiasm, many are of a character not fit for me to record. The
good old ladies who were violent partisans of the Stuarts had little hesitation in referring
without reserve to the future and eternal destiny of William of Orange. One anecdote which
I had from a near relative of the family may be adduced in illustration of the powerful hold
which the cause had upon the views and consciences of Jacobites.

A former Mr. Stirling of Keir had favoured the Stuart cause, and had in fact attended a muster
of forces at the Brig of Turk previous to the '15. This symptom of a rising against the Government
occasioned some uneasiness, and the authorities were very active in their endeavours to discover
who were the leaders of the movement. Keir was suspected. The miller of Keir was brought forward
as a witness, and swore positively that the laird was not present. Now, as it was well known
that he was there, and that the miller knew it, a neighbour asked him privately, when he came
out of the witness-box, how he could on oath assert such a falsehood. The miller replied, quite
undaunted, and with a feeling of confidence in the righteousness of his cause approaching the
sublime--"I would rather trust my soul in God's mercy than Keir's head into their hands."

A correspondent has sent me an account of a curious ebullition of Jacobite feeling and enthusiasm,
now I suppose quite extinct. My correspondent received it himself from Alexander, fourth Duke
of Gordon, and he had entered it in a commonplace-book when he heard it, in 1826.

"David Tulloch, tenant in Drumbenan, under the second and third Dukes of Gordon, had been 'out'
in the '45--or the fufteen, or both--and was a great favourite of his respective landlords.
One day, having attended the young Lady Susan Gordon (afterwards Duchess of Manchester) to
the 'Chapel' at Huntly, David, perceiving that her ladyship had neither hassock nor carpet
to protect her garments from the earthen floor, respectfully spread his plaid for the young
lady to kneel upon, and the service proceeded; but when the prayer for the King and Royal Family
was commenced, David, sans cerémonie, drew, or rather 'twitched,' the plaid from under the
knees of the astonished young lady, exclaiming, not sotto voce, 'The deil a ane shall pray
for them on my plaid!'"

I have a still more pungent demonstration against praying for the king, which a friend in Aberdeen
assures me he received from the son of the gentleman who heard the protest. In the Episcopal
Chapel in Aberdeen, of which Primus John Skinner was incumbent, they commenced praying in the
service for George III. immediately on the death of Prince Charles Edward. On the first Sunday
of the prayer being used, this gentleman's father, walking home with a friend whom he knew
to be an old and determined Jacobite, said to him, "What do you think of that, Mr.----?" The
reply was, "Indeed, the less we say aboot that prayer the better." But he was pushed for "further
answer as to his own views and his own ideas on the matter," so he came out with the declaration,
"Weel, then, I say this--they may pray the kenees[28] aff their breeks afore I join in that
prayer."

The following is a characteristic Jacobite story. It must have happened shortly after 1745,
when all manner of devices were fallen upon to display Jacobitism, without committing the safety
of the Jacobite, such as having white knots on gowns; drinking, "The king, ye ken wha I mean;"
uttering the toast "The king," with much apparent loyalty, and passing the glass over the water-jug,
indicating the esoteric meaning of majesty beyond the sea,--etc. etc.; and various toasts,
which were most important matters in those times, and were often given as tests of loyalty,
or the reverse, according to the company in which they were given. Miss Carnegy of Craigo,
well known and still remembered amongst the old Montrose ladies as an uncompromising Jacobite,
had been vowing that she would drink King James and his son in a company of staunch Brunswickers,
and being strongly dissuaded from any such foolish and dangerous attempt by some of her friends
present, she answered them with a text of Scripture, "The tongue no man can tame--James Third
and Aucht" and drank off her glass[29]!

CHAPTER THE THIRD.

ON OLD SCOTTISH CONVIVIALITY.

The next change in manners which has been effected, in the memory of many now living, regards
the habits of conviviality, or, to speak more plainly, regards the banishment of drunkenness
from polite society. It is indeed a most important and blessed change. But it is a change the
full extent of which many persons now alive can hardly estimate. Indeed, it is scarcely possible
to realise the scenes which took place seventy or eighty years back, or even less. In many
houses, when a party dined, the ladies going away was the signal for the commencement of a
system of compulsory conviviality. No one was allowed to shirk--no daylight--no heeltaps--was
the wretched jargon in which were expressed the propriety and the duty of seeing that the glass,
when filled, must be emptied and drained. We have heard of glasses having the bottoms knocked
off, so that no shuffling tricks might be played with them, and that they could only be put
down--empty.

One cannot help looking back with amazement at the infatuation which could for a moment tolerate
such a sore evil. To a man of sober inclinations it must have been an intolerable nuisance
to join a dinner party at many houses, where he knew he should have to witness the most disgusting
excesses in others, and to fight hard to preserve himself from a compliance with the example
of those around him.

The scenes of excess which occurred in the houses where deep drinking was practised must have
been most revolting to sober persons who were unaccustomed to such conviviality; as in the
case of a drinking Angus laird, entertaining as his guest a London merchant of formal manners
and temperate habits. The poor man was driven from the table when the drinking set in hard,
and stole away to take refuge in his bedroom. The company, however, were determined not to
let the worthy citizen off so easily, but proceeded in a body, with the laird at their head,
and invaded his privacy by exhibiting bottles and glasses at his bedside, Losing all patience,
the wretched victim gasped out his indignation--"Sir, your hospitality borders upon brutality."
It must have had a fatal influence also on many persons to whom drinking was most injurious,
and who were yet not strong-minded enough to resist the temptations to excess. Poor James Boswell,
who certainly required no extraordinary urging to take a glass too much, is found in his letters,
which have recently come to light, laying the blame of his excesses to "falling into a habit
which still prevails in Scotland;" and then he remarks, with censorious emphasis, on the "drunken
manners of his countrymen." This was about 1770.

A friend of mine, however, lately departed--Mr. Boswell of Balmuto--showed more spirit than
the Londoner, when he found himself in a similar situation. Challenged by the host to drink,
urged and almost forced to swallow a quantity of wine against his own inclination, he proposed
a counter-challenge in the way of eating, and made the following ludicrous and original proposal
to the company,--that two or three legs of mutton should be prepared, and he would then contest
the point of who could devour most meat; and certainly it seems as reasonable to compel people
to eat, as to compel them to drink, beyond the natural cravings of nature.

The situation of ladies, too, must frequently have been very disagreeable--when, for instance,
gentlemen came up stairs in a condition most unfit for female society. Indeed they were often
compelled to fly from scenes which were most unfitting for them to witness. They were expected
to get out of the way at the proper time, or when a hint was given them to do so. At Glasgow
sixty years ago, when the time had come for the bowl to be introduced, some jovial and thirsty
members of the company proposed as a toast, "The trade of Glasgow and the outward bound!" The
hint was taken, and silks and satins moved off to the drawing-room.

In my part of the country the traditionary stories of drinking prowess are quite marvellous.
On Deeside there flourished a certain Saunders Paul (whom I remember an old man), an innkeeper
at Banchory. He was said to have drunk whisky, glass for glass, to the claret of Mr. Maule
and the Laird of Skene for a whole evening; and in those days there was a traditional story
of his despatching, at one sitting, in company with a character celebrated for conviviality--one
of the men employed to float rafts of timber down the Dee--three dozen of porter. Of this Mr.
Paul it was recorded, that on being asked if he considered porter as a wholesome beverage,
he replied, "Oh yes, if you don't take above a dozen." Saunders Paul was, as I have said, the
innkeeper at Banchory: his friend and porter companion was drowned in the Dee, and when told
that the body had been found down the stream below Crathes, he coolly remarked, "I am surprised
at that, for I never kenn'd him pass the inn before without comin' in for a glass."

Some relatives of mine travelling in the Highlands were amused by observing in a small road-side
public-house a party drinking, whose apparatus for conviviality called forth the dry quaint
humour which is so thoroughly Scottish. Three drovers had met together, and were celebrating
their meeting by a liberal consumption of whisky; the inn could only furnish one glass without
a bottom, and this the party passed on from one to another. A queer-looking pawky chield, whenever
the glass came to his turn, remarked most gravely, "I think we wadna be the waur o' some water,"
taking care, however, never to add any of the simple element, but quietly drank off his glass.

There was a sort of infatuation in the supposed dignity and manliness attached to powers of
deep potation, and the fatal effects of drinking were spoken of in a manner both reckless and
unfeeling. Thus, I have been assured that a well-known old laird of the old school expressed
himself with great indignation at the charge brought against hard drinking that it had actually
killed people. "Na, na, I never knew onybody killed wi' drinking, but I hae kenn'd some that
dee'd in the training." A positive éclat was attached to the accomplished and well-trained
consumer of claret or of whisky toddy, which gave an importance and even merit to the practice
of drinking, and which had a most injurious effect. I am afraid some of the Pleydells of the
old school would have looked with the most ineffable contempt on the degeneracy of the present
generation in this respect, and that the temperance movement would be little short of insanity
in their eyes; and this leads me to a remark.--In considering this portion of the subject,
we should bear in mind a distinction. The change we now speak of involves more than a mere
change of a custom or practice in social life. It is a change in men's sentiments and feelings
on a certain great question of morals. Except we enter into this distinction we cannot appreciate
the extent of the change which has really taken place in regard to intemperate habits.

I have an anecdote from a descendant of Principal Robertson, of an address made to him, which
showed the real importance attached to all that concerned the system of drinking in his time.
The Principal had been invited to spend some days in a country-house, and the minister of the
parish (a jovial character) had been asked to meet him. Before dinner he went up to Dr. Robertson
and addressed him confidentially--"Doctor, I understand ye are a brother of my gude freend
Peter Robertson of Edinburgh, therefore I'll gie you a piece of advice,--Bend[30] weel to the
Madeira at dinner, for here ye'll get little o't after." I have known persons who held that
a man who could not drink must have a degree of feebleness and imbecility of character. But
as this is an important point, I will adduce the higher authority of Lord Cockburn, and quote
from him two examples, very different certainly in their nature, but both bearing upon the
question. I refer to what he says of Lord Hermand:--"With Hermand drinking was a virtue; he
had a sincere respect for drinking, indeed a high moral approbation, and a serious compassion
for the poor wretches who could not indulge in it, and with due contempt of those who could
but did not;" and, secondly, I refer to Lord Cockburn's pages for an anecdote which illustrates
the perverted feeling I refer to, now happily no longer existing. It relates the opinion expressed
by an old drunken writer of Selkirk (whose name is not mentioned) regarding his anticipation
of professional success for Mr. Cranstoun, afterwards Lord Corehouse. Sir Walter Scott, William
Erskine, and Cranstoun, had dined with this Selkirk writer, and Scott--of hardy, strong, and
healthy frame--had matched the writer himself in the matter of whisky punch. Poor Cranstoun,
of refined and delicate mental and bodily temperament, was a bad hand at such work, and was
soon off the field. On the party breaking up, the Selkirk writer expressed his admiration of
Scott, assuring him that he would rise high in the profession, and adding: "I'll tell ye what,
Maister Walter, that lad Cranstoun may get to the tap o' the bar, if he can; but tak my word
for't, it's no be by drinking."

There was a sort of dogged tone of apology for excess in drinking, which marked the hold which
the practice had gained on ordinary minds. Of this we have a remarkable example in the unwilling
testimony of a witness who was examined as to the fact of drunkenness being charged against
a minister. The person examined was beadle, or one of the church officials. He was asked, "Did
you ever see the minister the worse of drink?" "I canna say I've seen him the waur o' drink,
but nae doubt I've seen him the better o't," was the evasive answer. The question, however,
was pushed further; and when he was urged to say if this state of being "the better for drink"
ever extended to a condition of absolute helpless intoxication, the reply was: "Indeed, afore
that cam', I was blind fou mysel', and I could see nae thing."

A legal friend has told me of a celebrated circuit where Lord Hermand was judge, and Clephane
depute-advocate. The party got drunk at Ayr, and so continued (although quite able for their
work) till the business was concluded at Jedburgh. Some years after, my informant heard that
this circuit had, at Jedburgh, acquired the permanent name of the "daft circuit."

Lord Cockburn was fond of describing a circuit scene at Stirling, in his early days at the
bar, under the presidency of his friend and connection Lord Hermand. After the circuit dinner,
and when drinking had gone on for some time, young Cockburn observed places becoming vacant
in the social circle, but no one going out at the door. He found that the individuals had dropped
down under the table. He took the hint, and by this ruse retired from the scene. He lay quiet
till the beams of the morning sun penetrated the apartment. The judge and some of his staunch
friends coolly walked up stairs, washed their hands and faces, came down to breakfast, and
went into court quite fresh and fit for work.

The feeling of importance frequently attached to powers of drinking was formally attested by
a well-known western baronet of convivial habits and convivial memory. He was desirous of bearing
testimony to the probity, honour, and other high moral qualities of a friend whom he wished
to commend. Having fully stated these claims to consideration and respect, he deemed it proper
to notice also his convivial attainments: he added accordingly, with cautious approval on so
important a point--"And he is a fair drinker[31]."

The following anecdote is an amusing example of Scottish servant humour and acuteness in measuring
the extent of consumption by a convivial party in Forfarshire. The party had met at a farmer's
house not far from Arbroath, to celebrate the reconciliation of two neighbouring farmers who
had long been at enmity. The host was pressing and hospitable; the party sat late, and consumed
a vast amount of whisky toddy. The wife was penurious, and grudged the outlay. When at last,
at a morning hour, the party dispersed, the lady, who had not slept in her anxiety, looked
over the stairs and eagerly asked the servant girl, "How many bottles of whisky have they used,
Betty?" The lass, who had not to pay for the whisky, but had been obliged to go to the well
to fetch the water for the toddy, coolly answered, "I dinna ken, mem, but they've drucken sax
gang o' water."

We cannot imagine a better illustration of the general habits that prevailed in Scottish society
in regard to drinking about the time we speak of than one which occurs in the recently-published
"Memoirs of a Banking House," that of the late Sir William Forbes, Bart, of Pitsligo. The book
comprises much that is interesting to the family, and to Scotchmen. It contains a pregnant
hint as to the manners of polite society and business habits in those days. Of John Coutts,
one of four brothers connected with the house, Sir William records how he was "more correct
in his conduct than the others; so much so, that Sir William never but once saw him in the
counting-house disguised with liquor, and incapable of transacting business."

In the Highlands this sort of feeling extended to an almost incredible extent, even so much
as to obscure the moral and religious sentiments. Of this a striking proof was afforded in
a circumstance which took place in my own church soon after I came into it. One of our Gaelic
clergy had so far forgotten himself as to appear in the church somewhat the worse of liquor.
This having happened so often as to come to the ears of the bishop, he suspended him from the
performance of divine service. Against this decision the people were a little disposed to rebel,
because, according to their Highland notions, "a gentleman was no the waur for being able to
tak' a gude glass o' whisky." These were the notions of a people in whose eyes the power of
swallowing whisky conferred distinction, and with whom inability to take the fitting quantity
was a mark of a mean and futile character. Sad to tell, the funeral rites of Highland chieftains
were not supposed to have been duly celebrated except there was an immoderate and often fatal
consumption of whisky. It has been related that at the last funeral in the Highlands, conducted
according to the traditions of the olden times, several of the guests fell victims to the usage,
and actually died of the excesses.

This phase of old and happily almost obsolete Scottish intemperance at funeral solemnities
must have been peculiarly revolting. Instances of this horrid practice being carried to a great
extent are traditionary in every part of the country. I am assured of the truth of the following
anecdote by a son of the gentleman who acted as chief mourner on the occasion:--About seventy
years ago an old maiden lady died in Strathspey. Just previous to her death she sent for her
grand-nephew, and said to him, "Wily, I'm deein', and as ye'll hae the charge o' a' I have,
mind now that as much whisky is to be used at my funeral as there was at my baptism." Willy
neglected to ask the old lady what the quantity of whisky used at the baptism was, but when
the day of the funeral arrived believed her orders would be best fulfilled by allowing each
guest to drink as much as he pleased. The churchyard where the body was to be deposited was
about ten miles distant from where the death occurred. It was a short day in November, and
when the funeral party came to the churchyard the shades of night had considerably closed in.
The grave-digger, whose patience had been exhausted in waiting, was not in the least willing
to accept of Captain G----'s (the chief mourner) apology for delay. After looking about him
he put the anxious question, "But, Captain, whaur's Miss Ketty?" The reply was, "In her coffin,
to be sure, and get it into the earth as fast as you can." There, however, was no coffin; the
procession had sojourned at a country inn by the way--had rested the body on a dyke--started
without it--and had to postpone the interment until next day. My correspondent very justly
adds the remark, "What would be thought of indulgence in drinking habits now that could lead
to such a result?"

Many scenes of a similar incongruous character are still traditionally connected with such
occasions. Within the last thirty years, a laird of Dundonald, a small estate in Ross-shire,
died at Inverness. There was open house for some days, and great eating and drinking. Here
the corpse commenced its progress toward its appointed home on the coast, and people followed
in multitudes to give it a partial convoy, all of whom had to be entertained. It took altogether
a fortnight to bury poor Dundonald, and great expense must have been incurred. This, however,
is looked back to at Inverness as the last of the real grand old Highland funerals. Such notions
of what is due to the memory of the departed have now become unusual if not obsolete. I myself
witnessed the first decided change in this matter. I officiated at the funeral of the late
Duke of Sutherland. The procession was a mile long. Refreshments were provided for 7000 persons;
beef, bread, and beer; but not one glass of whisky was allowed on the property that day!

It may, perhaps, be said that the change we speak of is not peculiar to Scotland; that in England
the same change has been apparent; and that drunkenness has passed away in the higher circles,
as a matter of course, as refinement and taste made an advancement in society. This is true.
But there were some features of the question which were peculiar to Scotland, and which at
one time rendered it less probable that intemperance would give way in the north. It seemed
in some quarters to have taken deeper root amongst us. The system of pressing, or of compelling,
guests to drink seemed more inveterate. Nothing can more powerfully illustrate the deep-rooted
character of intemperate habits in families than an anecdote which was related to me, as coming
from the late Mr. Mackenzie, author of the Man of Feeling. He had been involved in a regular
drinking party. He was keeping as free from the usual excesses as he was able, and as he marked
companions around him falling victims to the power of drink, he himself dropped off under the
table among the slain, as a measure of precaution; and lying there, his attention was called
to a small pair of hands working at his throat; on asking what it was, a voice replied, "Sir,
I'm the lad that's to lowse the neckcloths." Here, then, was a family, where, on drinking occasions,
it was the appointed duty of one of the household to attend, and, when the guests where becoming
helpless, to untie their cravats in fear of apoplexy or suffocation[32]. We ought certainly
to be grateful for the change which has taken place from such a system; for this change has
made a great revolution in Scottish social life. The charm and the romance long attached in
the minds of some of our countrymen to the whole system and concerns of hard drinking was indeed
most lamentable and absurd. At tavern suppers, where, nine times out often, it was the express
object of those who went to get drunk, such stuff as "regal purple stream," "rosy wine," "quaffing
the goblet," "bright sparkling nectar," "chasing the rosy hours," and so on, tended to keep
up the delusion, and make it a monstrous fine thing for men to sit up drinking half the night,
to have frightful headaches all next day, to make maudlin idiots of themselves as they were
going home, and to become brutes amongst their family when they arrived. And here I may introduce
the mention of a practice connected with the convivial habits of which we have been speaking,
but which has for some time passed away, at least from private tables--I mean the absurd system
of calling for toasts and sentiments each time the glasses were filled. During dinner not a
drop could be touched, except in conjunction with others, and with each drinking to the health
of each. But toasts came after dinner. I can just remember the practice in partial operation;
and my astonishment as a mere boy, when accidentally dining at table and hearing my mother
called upon to "give the company a gentleman," is one of my earliest reminiscences. Lord Cockburn
must have remembered them well, and I will quote his most amusing account of the effects:--"After
dinner, and before the ladies retired, there generally began what was called 'Rounds' of toasts,
when each gentleman named an absent lady, and each lady an absent gentleman, separately; or
one person was required to give an absent lady, and another person was required to match a
gentleman with that lady, and the persons named were toasted, generally, with allusions and
jokes about the fitness of the union. And, worst of all, there were 'Sentiments.' These were
short epigrammatic sentences, expressive of moral feelings and virtues, and were thought refined
and elegant productions. A faint conception of their nauseousness may be formed from the following
examples, every one of which I have heard given a thousand times, and which indeed I only recollect
from their being favourites. The glasses being filled, a person was asked for his or for her
sentiment, when this, or something similar, was committed:--'May the pleasures of the evening
bear the reflections of the morning;' or, 'may the friends of our youth be the companions of
our old age;' or, 'delicate pleasures to susceptible minds;' 'may the honest heart never feel
distress;' 'may the hand of charity wipe the tear from the eye of sorrow.' The conceited, the
ready, or the reckless, hackneyed in the art, had a knack of making new sentiments applicable
to the passing incidents with great ease. But it was a dreadful oppression on the timid or
the awkward. They used to shudder, ladies particularly; for nobody was spared when their turn
in the round approached. Many a struggle and blush did it cost; but this seemed only to excite
the tyranny of the masters of the craft; and compliance could never be avoided, except by more
torture than yielding.... It is difficult for those who have been under a more natural system
to comprehend how a sensible man, a respectable matron, a worthy old maid, and especially a
girl, could be expected to go into company easily, on such conditions[33]."

This accompaniment of domestic drinking by a toast or sentiment--the practice of which is now
confined to public entertainments--was then invariable in private parties, and was supposed
to enliven and promote the good fellowship of the social circle. Thus Fergusson, in one of
his poems, in describing a dinner, says--

     "The grace is said; it's nae ower lang,
      The claret reams in bells.
      Quo' Deacon, 'Let the toast round gang;
      Come, here's our noble sels
         Weel met the day.'"

There was a great variety of these toasts, some of them exclusively Scottish. A correspondent
has favoured me with a few reminiscences of such incentives to inebriety.

The ordinary form of drinking a health was in the address, "Here's t' ye."

Then such as the following were named by successive members of the company at the call of the
host:--

     The land o' cakes (Scotland).
     Mair freens and less need o' them.
     Thumping luck and fat weans.

     When we're gaun up the hill o' fortune may we ne'er
       meet a freen' coming doun.
     May ne'er waur be amang us.
     May the hinges o' freendship never rust, or the wings o'
       luve lose a feather.
     Here's to them that lo'es us, or lenns us a lift.
     Here's health to the sick, stilts to the lame; claise to
       the back, and brose to the wame.
     Here's health, wealth, wit, and meal.
     The deil rock them in a creel that does na' wish us a'
       weel.
     Horny hands and weather-beaten haffets (cheeks).
     The rending o' rocks and the pu'in' doun o' auld
       houses.

The above two belong to the mason craft; the first implies a wish for plenty of work, and health
to do it; the second, to erect new buildings and clear away old ones.

     May the winds o' adversity ne'er blaw open our door.
     May poortith ne'er throw us in the dirt, or gowd into
       the high saddle[34].
     May the mouse ne'er leave our meal-pock wi' the tear
       in its e'e.
     Blythe may we a' be.
     Ill may we never see.
     Breeks and brochan (brose).
     May we ne'er want a freend, or a drappie to gie him.
     Gude een to you a', an' tak your nappy.
     A willy-waught's a gude night cappy[35].
     May we a' be canty an' cosy,
     An' ilk hae a wife in his bosy.
     A cosy but, and a canty ben,
     To couthie[36] women and trusty men.
     The ingle neuk wi' routh[37] o' bannoch and bairns.
     Here's to him wha winna beguile ye.
     Mair sense and mair siller.
     Horn, corn, wool, an' yarn[38].

Sometimes certain toasts were accompanied by Highland honours. This was a very exciting, and
to a stranger a somewhat alarming, proceeding. I recollect my astonishment the first time I
witnessed the ceremony--the company, from sitting quietly drinking their wine, seemed to assume
the attitude of harmless maniacs, allowed to amuse themselves. The moment the toast was given,
and proposed to be drunk with Highland honours, the gentlemen all rose, and with one foot on
their chair and another on the table, they drank the toast with Gaelic shrieks, which were
awful to hear, the cheering being under the direction of a toast-master appointed to direct
the proceedings. I am indebted to the kindness of the Rev. Duncan Campbell, the esteemed minister
of Moulin, for the form used on such occasions. Here it is in the Gaelic and the Saxon:--

Gaelic.

So! Nish! Nish! Sud ris! Sud ris! Thig ris! Thig ris! A on uair eile!

Translation.

Prepare! Now! Now! Yon again! Yon again! At it again! At it again! Another time, or one cheer more!

The reader is to imagine these words uttered with yells and vociferations, and accompanied
with frantic gestures.

The system of giving toasts was so regularly established, that collections of them were published
to add brilliancy to the festive board. By the kindness of the librarian, I have seen a little
volume which is in the Signet Library of Edinburgh. It is entitled, "The Gentleman's New Bottle
Companion," Edinburgh, printed in the year MDCCLXXVII. It contains various toasts and sentiments
which the writer considered to be suitable to such occasions. Of the taste and decency of the
companies where some of them could be made use of, the less said the better.

I have heard also of large traditionary collections of toasts and sentiments, belonging to
old clubs and societies, extending back above a century, but I have not seen any of them, and
I believe my readers will think they have had quite enough.

The favourable reaction which has taken place in regard to the whole system of intemperance
may very fairly, in the first place, be referred to an improved moral feeling. But other causes
have also assisted; and it is curious to observe how the different changes in the modes of
society bear upon one another. The alteration in the convivial habits which we are noticing
in our own country may be partly due to alteration of hours. The old plan of early dining favoured
a system of suppers, and after supper was a great time for convivial songs and sentiments.
This of course induced drinking to a late hour. Most drinking songs imply the night as the
season of conviviality--thus in a popular madrigal:--

     "By the gaily circling glass
      We can tell how minutes pass;
      By the hollow cask we're told
      How the waning night grows old."

And Burns thus marks the time:--

     "It is the moon, I ken her horn,
     That's blinkin' in the lift sae hie;
     She shines sae bright, to wyle us hame,
     But by my sooth she'll wait a wee."

The young people of the present day have no idea of the state of matters in regard to the supper
system when it was the normal condition of society. The late dining hours may make the social
circle more formal, but they have been far less favourable to drinking propensities. After
such dinners as ours are now, suppers are clearly out of the question. One is astonished to
look back and recall the scenes to which were attached associations of hilarity, conviviality,
and enjoyment. Drinking parties were protracted beyond the whole Sunday, having begun by a
dinner on Saturday; imbecility and prostrate helplessness were a common result of these bright
and jovial scenes; and by what perversion of language, or by what obliquity of sentiment, the
notions of pleasure could be attached to scenes of such excess--to the nausea, the disgust
of sated appetite, and the racking headache--it is not easy to explain. There were men of heads
so hard, and of stomachs so insensible, that, like my friend Saunders Paul, they could stand
anything in the way of drink. But to men in general, and to the more delicate constitutions,
such a life must have been a cause of great misery. To a certain extent, and up to a certain
point, wine may be a refreshment and a wholesome stimulant; nay, it is a medicine, and a valuable
one, and as such, comes recommended on fitting occasions by the physician. Beyond this point,
as sanctioned and approved by nature, the use of wine is only degradation. Well did the sacred
writer call wine, when thus taken in excess, "a mocker." It makes all men equal, because it
makes them all idiotic. It allures them into a vicious indulgence, and then mocks their folly,
by depriving them of any sense they may ever have possessed.

It has, I fear, been injurious to the cause of temperance, that emotions of true friendship,
and the outpouring of human affections, should so frequently be connected with the obligation
that the parties should get drunk together. Drunkenness is thus made to hold too close an association
in men's minds with some of the best and finest feelings of their nature.

     "Friend of my soul, this goblet sip,"

is the constant acknowledged strain of poetical friendship: our own Robert Burns calls upon
the dear companion of his early happy days, with whom he had "paidl't i' the burn, frae mornin'
sun till dine," and between whom "braid seas had roar'd sin auld lang syne," to commemorate
their union of heart and spirit, and to welcome their meeting after years of separation, by
each one joining his pint-stoup, and by each taking a mutual "richt guid willie-waught," in
honour of the innocent and happy times of "auld lang syne." David marks his recognition of
friendship by tokens of a different character--"We took sweet counsel together, and walked
in the house of God as friends."--Ps. lv. 14.

Reference has already been made to Lord Hermand's opinion of drinking, and to the high estimation
in which he held a staunch drinker, according to the testimony of Lord Cockburn, There is a
remarkable corroboration of this opinion in a current anecdote which is traditionary regarding
the same learned judge. A case of some great offence was tried before him, and the counsel
pleaded extenuation for his client in that he was drunk when he committed the offence. "Drunk!"
exclaimed Lord Hermand, in great indignation; "if he could do such a thing when he was drunk,
what might he not have done when he was sober!" evidently implying that the normal condition
of human nature, and its most hopeful one, was a condition of intoxication.

Of the prevalence of hard drinking in certain houses as a system, a remarkable proof is given
at page 102. The following anecdote still further illustrates the subject, and corresponds
exactly with the story of the "loosing the cravats," which was performed for guests in a state
of helpless inebriety by one of the household. There had been a carousing party at Castle Grant,
many years ago, and as the evening advanced towards morning two Highlanders were in attendance
to carry the guests up stairs, it being understood that none could by any other means arrive
at their sleeping apartments. One or two of the guests, however, whether from their abstinence
or their superior strength of head, were walking up stairs, and declined the proffered assistance.
The attendants were quite astonished, and indignantly exclaimed, "Agh, it's sare cheenged times
at Castle Grant, when shentlemens can gang to bed on their ain feet."

There was a practice in many Scottish houses which favoured most injuriously the national tendency
to spirit-drinking, and that was a foolish and inconsiderate custom of offering a glass on
all occasions as a mark of kindness or hospitality. I mention the custom only for the purpose
of offering a remonstrance. It should never be done. Even now, I am assured, small jobs (carpenters'
or blacksmiths', or such like) are constantly remunerated in the West Highlands of Scotland--and
doubtless in many other parts of the country--not by a pecuniary payment, but by a dram; if
the said dram be taken from a speerit-decanter out of the family press or cupboard, the compliment
is esteemed the greater, and the offering doubly valued.

A very amusing dialogue between a landlord and his tenant on this question of the dram has
been sent to me. John Colquhoun, an aged Dumbartonshire tenant, is asked by his laird on Lochlomond
side, to stay a minute till he tastes. "Now, John," says the laird. "Only half a glass, Camstraddale,"
meekly pleads John. "Which half?" rejoins the laird, "the upper or the lower?" John grins,
and turns off both--the upper and lower too.

The upper and lower portions of the glass furnish another drinking anecdote. A very greedy
old lady employed another John Colquhoun to cut the grass upon the lawn, and enjoined him to
cut it very close, adding, as a reason for the injunction, that one inch at the bottom was
worth two at the top. Having finished his work much to her satisfaction, the old lady got out
the whisky-bottle and a tapering wineglass, which she filled about half full; John suggested
that it would be better to fill it up, slily adding, "Fill it up, mem, for it's no like the
gress; an inch at the tap's worth twa at the boddom."

But the most whimsical anecdote connected with the subject of drink, is one traditionary in
the south of Scotland, regarding an old Gallovidian lady disclaiming more drink under the following
circumstances:--The old generation of Galloway lairds were a primitive and hospitable race,
but their conviviality sometimes led to awkward occurrences. In former days, when roads were
bad and wheeled vehicles almost unknown, an old laird was returning from a supper party, with
his lady mounted behind him on horseback. On crossing the river Urr, at a ford at a point where
it joins the sea, the old lady dropped off, but was not missed till her husband reached his
door, when, of course, there was an immediate search made. The party who were despatched in
quest of her arrived just in time to find her remonstrating with the advancing tide, which
trickled into her mouth, in these words, "No anither drap; neither het nor cauld."

A lady, on one occasion, offering a dram to a porter in a rather small glass, said, "Take it
off; it will do you no harm," on which the man, looking at the diminutive glass, observed,
"Harm! Na, gin it were poushon" (poison).

I would now introduce, as a perfect illustration of this portion of our subject, two descriptions
of clergymen, well known men in their day, which are taken from Dr. Carlyle's work, already
referred to. Of Dr. Alexander Webster, a clergyman, and one of his contemporaries, he writes
thus:--"Webster, leader of the high-flying party, had justly obtained much respect amongst
the clergy, and all ranks indeed, for having established the Widows' Fund.... His appearance
of great strictness in religion, to which he was bred under his father, who was a very popular
minister of the Tolbooth Church, not acting in restraint of his convivial humour, he was held
to be excellent company even by those of dissolute manners; while, being a five-bottle man,
he could lay them all under the table. This had brought on him the nickname of Dr. Bonum Magnum
in the time of faction. But never being indecently the worse of liquor, and a love of claret,
to any degree, not being reckoned in those days a sin in Scotland, all his excesses were pardoned."

Dr. Patrick Cumming, also a clergyman and a contemporary, he describes in the following terms:--"Dr.
Patrick Cumming was, at this time (1751), at the head of the moderate interest, and had his
temper been equal to his talents, might have kept it long, for he had both learning and sagacity,
and very agreeable conversation, with a constitution able to bear the conviviality of the times."

Now, of all the anecdotes and facts which I have collected, or of all which I have ever heard
to illustrate the state of Scottish society in the past times, as regards its habits of intemperance,
this assuredly surpasses them all.--Of two well-known, distinguished, and leading clergymen
in the middle of the eighteenth century, one who had "obtained much respect," and "had the
appearance of great strictness in religion," is described as an enormous drinker of claret;
the other, an able leader of a powerful section in the church, is described as owing his influence
to his power of meeting the conviviality of the times. Suppose for a moment a future biographer
should write in this strain of eminent divines, and should apply to distinguished members of
the Scottish Church in 1863 such description as the following:--"Dr. ---- was a man who took
a leading part in all church affairs at this time, and was much looked up to by the evangelical
section of the General Assembly; he could always carry off without difficulty his five bottles
of claret. Dr. ---- had great influence in society, and led the opposite party in the General
Assembly, as he could take his place in all companies, and drink on fair terms at the most
convivial tables!!" Why, this seems to us so monstrous, that we can scarcely believe Dr. Carlyle's
account of matters in his day to be possible.

There is a story which illustrates, with terrible force, the power which drinking had obtained
in Scottish social life. I have been deterred from bringing it forward, as too shocking for
production. But as the story is pretty well known, and its truth vouched for on high authority,
I venture to give it, as affording a proof that, in those days, no consideration, not even
the most awful that affects human nature, could be made to outweigh the claims of a determined
conviviality. It may, I think, be mentioned also, in the way of warning men generally against
the hardening and demoralising effects of habitual drunkenness. The story is this:--At a prolonged
drinking bout, one of the party remarked, "What gars the laird of Garskadden look sae gash[39]?"
"Ou," says his neighbour, the laird of Kilmardinny, "deil meane him! Garskadden's been wi'
his Maker these twa hours; I saw him step awa, but I didna like to disturb gude company[40]!"

Before closing this subject of excess in drinking, I may refer to another indulgence in which
our countrymen are generally supposed to partake more largely than their neighbours:--I mean
snuff-taking. The popular southern ideas of a Scotchman and his snuff-box are inseparable.
Smoking does not appear to have been practised more in Scotland than in England, and if Scotchmen
are sometimes intemperate in the use of snuff, it is certainly a more innocent excess than
intemperance in whisky. I recollect, amongst the common people in the north, a mode of taking
snuff which showed a determination to make the most of it, and which indicated somewhat of
intemperance in the enjoyment; this was to receive it not through a pinch between the fingers,
but through a quill or little bone ladle, which forced it up the nose. But, besides smoking
and snuffing, I have a reminiscence of a third use of tobacco, which I apprehend is now quite
obsolete. Some of my readers will be surprised when I name this forgotten luxury. It was called
plugging, and consisted (horresco referens) in poking a piece of pigtail tobacco right into
the nostril. I remember this distinctly; and now, at a distance of more than sixty years, I
recall my utter astonishment as a boy, at seeing my grand-uncle, with whom I lived in early
days, put a thin piece of tobacco fairly up his nose. I suppose the plug acted as a continued
stimulant on the olfactory nerve, and was, in short, like taking a perpetual pinch of snuff.

The inveterate snuff-taker, like the dram-drinker, felt severely the being deprived of his
accustomed stimulant, as in the following instance:--A severe snow-storm in the Highlands,
which lasted for several weeks, having stopped all communication betwixt neighbouring hamlets,
the snuff-boxes were soon reduced to their last pinch. Borrowing and begging from all the neighbours
within reach were first resorted to, but when these failed, all were alike reduced to the longing
which unwillingly-abstinent snuff-takers alone know. The minister of the parish was amongst
the unhappy number; the craving was so intense that study was out of the question, and he became
quite restless. As a last resort the beadle was despatched, through the snow, to a neighbouring
glen, in the hope of getting a supply; but he came back as unsuccessful as he went. "What's
to be dune, John?" was the minister's pathetic inquiry. John shook his head, as much as to
say that he could not tell; but immediately thereafter started up, as if a new idea had occurred
to him. He came back in a few minutes, crying, "Hae!" The minister, too eager to be scrutinising,
took a long, deep pinch, and then said, "Whaur did you get it?" "I soupit[41] the poupit,"
was John's expressive reply. The minister's accumulated superfluous Sabbath snuff now came
into good use.

It does not appear that at this time a similar excess in eating accompanied this prevalent
tendency to excess in drinking. Scottish tables were at that period plain and abundant, but
epicurism or gluttony do not seem to have been handmaids to drunkenness. A humorous anecdote,
however, of a full-eating laird, may well accompany those which appertain to the drinking lairds.--A
lady in the north having watched the proceedings of a guest, who ate long and largely, she
ordered the servant to take away, as he had at last laid down his knife and fork. To her surprise,
however, he resumed his work, and she apologised to him, saying, "I thought, Mr. ----, you
had done."

"Oh, so I had, mem; but I just fan' a doo in the redd o' my plate." He had discovered a pigeon
lurking amongst the bones and refuse of his plate, and could not resist finishing it.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] Distinguished examples of these are to be found in the Old Greyfriars' Church, Edinburgh,
and in the Cathedral of Glasgow; to say nothing of the beautiful specimens in St. John's Episcopal
Church, Edinburgh.

[21] A Shetland pony.

[22] The Lord's Supper.

[23] Bullock.

[24] Perhaps.

[25] Carefully selected.

[26] I recollect an old Scottish gentleman, who shared this horror, asking very gravely, "Were
not swine forbidden under the law, and cursed under the gospel?"

[27] Lie in a grovelling attitude. See Jamieson.

[28] So pronounced in Aberdeen.

[29] Implying that there was a James Third of England, Eighth of Scotland.

[30] Old Scotch for "drink hard".

[31] A friend learned in Scottish history suggests an ingenious remark, that this might mean
more than a mere full drinker. To drink "fair," used to imply that the person drank in the
same proportion as the company; to drink more would be unmannerly; to drink less might imply
some unfair motive. Either interpretation shows the importance attached to drinking and all
that concerned it.

[32] In Burt's Letters from the North of Scotland, written about 1730, similar scenes are related
as occurring in Culloden House: as the company were disabled by drink, two servants in waiting
took up the invalids with short poles in their chairs as they sat (if not fallen down), and
carried them off to their beds.

[33] Lord Cockburn's Memorials of his Time, p. 37, et seq.

[34] May we never be cast down by adversity, or unduly elevated by prosperity.

[35] A toast at parting or breaking up of the party.

[36] Loving

[37] Plenty

[38] Toast for agricultural dinners

[39] Ghastly.

[40] The scene is described and place mentioned in Dr. Strang's account of Glasgow Clubs, p.
104, 2d edit.

[41] Swept.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH.

ON THE OLD SCOTTISH DOMESTIC SERVANT.

I come now to a subject on which a great change has taken place in this country during my own
experience--viz. those peculiarities of intercourse which some years back marked the connection
between masters and servants. In many Scottish houses a great familiarity prevailed between
members of the family and the domestics. For this many reasons might have been assigned. Indeed,
when we consider the simple modes of life, which discarded the ideas of ceremony or etiquette;
the retired and uniform style of living, which afforded few opportunities for any change in
the domestic arrangements; and when we add to these a free, unrestrained, unformal, and natural
style of intercommunion, which seems rather a national characteristic, we need not be surprised
to find in quiet Scottish families a sort of intercourse with old domestics which can hardly
be looked for at a time when habits are so changed, and where much of the quiet eccentricity
belonging to us as a national characteristic is almost necessarily softened down or driven
out. Many circumstances conspired to promote familiarity with old domestics, which are now
entirely changed. We take the case of a domestic coming early into service, and passing year
after year in the same family. The servant grows up into old age and confirmed habits when
the laird is becoming a man, a husband, father of a family. The domestic cannot forget the
days when his master was a child, riding on his back, applying to him for help in difficulties
about his fishing, his rabbits, his pony, his going to school. All the family know how attached
he is; nobody likes to speak harshly to him. He is a privileged man. The faithful old servant
of thirty, forty, or fifty years, if with a tendency to be jealous, cross, and interfering,
becomes a great trouble. Still the relative position was the result of good feelings. If the
familiarity sometimes became a nuisance, it was a wholesome nuisance, and relic of a simpler
time gone by. But the case of the old servant, whether agreeable or troublesome, was often
so fixed and established in the households of past days, that there was scarce a possibility
of getting away from it. The well-known story of the answer of one of these domestic tyrants
to the irritated master, who was making an effort to free himself from the thraldom, shows
the idea entertained, by one of the parties at least, of the permanency of the tenure. I am
assured by a friend that the true edition of the story was this:--An old Mr. Erskine of Dun
had one of these retainers, under whose language and unreasonable assumption he had long groaned.
He had almost determined to bear it no longer, when, walking out with his man, on crossing
a field, the master exclaimed, "There's a hare." Andrew looked at the place, and coolly replied,
"What a big lee, it's a cauff." The master, quite angry now, plainly told the old domestic
that they must part. But the tried servant of forty years, not dreaming of the possibility
of his dismissal, innocently asked, "Ay, sir; whare ye gaun? I'm sure ye're aye best at hame;"
supposing that, if there were to be any disruption, it must be the master who would change
the place. An example of a similar fixedness of tenure in an old servant was afforded in an
anecdote related of an old coachman long in the service of a noble lady, and who gave all the
trouble and annoyance which he conceived were the privileges of his position in the family.
At last the lady fairly gave him notice to quit, and told him he must go. The only satisfaction
she got was the quiet answer, "Na, na, my lady; I druve ye to your marriage, and I shall stay
to drive ye to your burial." Indeed, we have heard of a still stronger assertion of his official
position by one who met an order to quit his master's service by the cool reply, "Na, na; I'm
no gangin'. If ye dinna ken whan ye've a gude servant; I ken whan I've a gude place."

It is but fair, however, to give an anecdote in which the master and the servant's position
was reversed, in regard to a wish for change:--An old servant of a relation of my own with
an ungovernable temper, became at last so weary of his master's irascibility, that he declared
he must leave, and gave as his reason the fits of anger which came on, and produced such great
annoyance that he could not stand it any longer. His master, unwilling to lose him, tried to
coax him by reminding him that the anger was soon off. "Ay," replied the other very shrewdly,
"but it's nae suner aff than it's on again." I remember well an old servant of the old school,
who had been fifty years domesticated in a family. Indeed I well remember the celebration of
the half-century service completed. There were rich scenes with Sandy and his mistress. Let
me recall you both to memory. Let me think of you, the kind, generous, warm-hearted mistress;
a gentlewoman by descent and by feeling; a true friend, a sincere Christian. And let me think,
too, of you, Sandy, an honest, faithful, and attached member of the family. For you were in
that house rather as a humble friend than a servant. But out of this fifty years of attached
service there sprang a sort of domestic relation and freedom of intercourse which would surprise
people in these days. And yet Sandy knew his place. Like Corporal Trim, who, although so familiar
and admitted to so much familiarity with my Uncle Toby, never failed in the respectful address--never
forgot to say "your honour." At a dinner party Sandy was very active about changing his mistress's
plate, and whipped it off when he saw that she had got a piece of rich paté upon it. His mistress,
not liking such rapid movements, and at the same time knowing that remonstrance was in vain,
exclaimed, "Hout, Sandy, I'm no dune," and dabbed her fork into the "pattee" as it disappeared,
to rescue a morsel. I remember her praise of English mutton was a great annoyance to the Scottish
prejudices of Sandy. One day she was telling me of a triumph Sandy had upon that subject. The
smell of the joint roasting had become very offensive through the house. The lady called out
to Sandy to have the doors closed, and added, "That must be some horrid Scotch mutton you have
got." To Sandy's delight, this was a leg of English mutton his mistress had expressly chosen;
and, as she significantly told me, "Sandy never let that down upon me." On Deeside there existed,
in my recollection, besides the Saunders Paul I have alluded to, a number of extraordinary
acute and humorous Scottish characters amongst the lower classes. The native gentry enjoyed
their humour, and hence arose a familiarity of intercourse which called forth many amusing
scenes and quaint rejoinders. A celebrated character of this description bore the soubriquet
of "Boaty," of whom I have already spoken. He had acted as Charon of the Dee at Banchory, and
passed the boat over the river before there was a bridge. Boaty had many curious sayings recorded
of him. When speaking of the gentry around, he characterised them according to their occupations
and activity of habits--thus:--"As to Mr. Russell of Blackha', he just works himsell like a
paid labourer; Mr. Duncan's a' the day fish, fish; but Sir Robert's a perfect gentleman--he
does naething, naething." Boaty was a first-rate salmon-fisher himself, and was much sought
after by amateurs who came to Banchory for the sake of the sport afforded by the beautiful
Dee. He was, perhaps, a little spoiled, and presumed upon the indulgence and familiarity shown
to him in the way of his craft--as, for example, he was in attendance with his boat on a sportsman
who was both skilful and successful, for he caught salmon after salmon. Between each fish catching
he solaced himself with a good pull from a flask, which he returned to his pocket, however,
without offering to let Boaty have any participation in the refreshment. Boaty, partly a little
professionally jealous, perhaps, at the success, and partly indignant at receiving less than
his usual attention on such occasions, and seeing no prospect of amendment, deliberately pulled
the boat to shore, shouldered the oars, rods, landing-nets, and all the fishing apparatus which
he had provided, and set off homewards. His companion, far from considering his day's work
to be over, and keen for more sport, was amazed, and peremptorily ordered him to come back.
But all the answer made by the offended Boaty was, "Na na; them 'at drink by themsells may
just fish by themsells."

The charge these old domestics used to take of the interests of the family, and the cool way
in which they took upon them to protect those interests, sometimes led to very provoking, and
sometimes to very ludicrous, exhibitions of importance. A friend told me of a dinner scene
illustrative of this sort of interference which had happened at Airth in the last generation.
Mrs. Murray, of Abercairney, had been amongst the guests, and at dinner one of the family noticed
that she was looking for the proper spoon to help herself with salt. The old servant, Thomas,
was appealed to, that the want might be supplied. He did not notice the appeal. It was repeated
in a more peremptory manner, "Thomas, Mrs. Murray has not a salt-spoon!" to which he replied
most emphatically, "Last time Mrs. Murray dined here we lost a salt-spoon." An old servant
who took a similar charge of everything that went on in the family, having observed that his
master thought that he had drunk wine with every lady at table, but had overlooked one, jogged
his memory with the question, "What ails ye at her wi' the green gown?"

In my own family I know a case of a very long service, and where, no doubt, there was much
interest and attachment; but it was a case where the temper had not softened under the influence
of years, but had rather assumed that form of disposition which we denominate crusty. My grand-uncle,
Sir A. Ramsay, died in 1806, and left a domestic who had been in his service since he was ten
years of age; and being at the time of his master's death past fifty or well on to sixty, he
must have been more than forty years a servant in the family. From the retired life my grand-uncle
had been leading, Jamie Layal had much of his own way, and, like many a domestic so situated,
he did not like to be contradicted, and, in fact, could not bear to be found fault with. My
uncle, who had succeeded to a part of my grand-uncle's property, succeeded also to Jamie Layal,
and, from respect to his late master's memory and Jamie's own services, he took him into his
house, intending him to act as house servant. However, this did not answer, and he was soon
kept on, more with the form than the reality of any active duty, and took any light work that
was going on about the house. In this capacity it was his daily task to feed a flock of turkeys
which were growing up to maturity. On one occasion, my aunt having followed him in his work,
and having observed such a waste of food that the ground was actually covered with grain which
they could not eat, and which would soon be destroyed and lost, naturally remonstrated, and
suggested a more reasonable and provident supply. But all the answer she got from the offended
Jamie was a bitter rejoinder, "Weel, then, neist time they sall get nane ava!" On another occasion
a family from a distance had called whilst my uncle and aunt were out of the house. Jamie came
into the parlour to deliver the cards, or to announce that they had called. My aunt, somewhat
vexed at not having been in the way, inquired what message Mr. and Mrs. Innes had left, as
she had expected one. "No; no message." She returned to the charge, and asked again if they
had not told him anything he was to repeat. Still, "No; no message." "But did they say nothing?
Are you sure they said nothing?" Jamie, sadly put out and offended at being thus interrogated,
at last burst forth, "They neither said ba nor bum," and indignantly left the room, banging
the door after him. A characteristic anecdote of one of these old domestics I have from a friend
who was acquainted with the parties concerned. The old man was standing at the sideboard and
attending to the demands of a pretty large dinner party; the calls made for various wants from
the company became so numerous and frequent that the attendant got quite bewildered, and lost
his patience and temper; at length he gave vent to his indignation in a remonstrance addressed
to the whole company, "Cry a' thegither, that's the way to be served."

I have two characteristic and dry Scottish answers, traditional in the Lothian family, supplied
to me by the late excellent and highly-gifted Marquis. A Marquis of Lothian of a former generation
observed in his walk two workmen very busy with a ladder to reach a bell, on which they next
kept up a furious ringing. He asked what was the object of making such a din, to which the
answer was, "Oh, juist, my lord to ca' the workmen together!" "Why, how many are there?" asked
his lordship. "Ou, juist Sandy and me," was the quiet rejoinder. The same Lord Lothian, looking
about the garden, directed his gardener's attention to a particular plum-tree, charging him
to be careful of the produce of that tree, and send the whole of it in marked, as it was of
a very particular kind. "Ou," said the gardener, "I'll dae that, my lord; there's juist twa
o' them."

These dry answers of Newbattle servants remind us of a similar state of communication in a
Yester domestic. Lord Tweeddale was very fond of dogs, and on leaving Yester for London he
instructed his head keeper, a quaint bodie, to give him a periodical report of the kennel,
and particulars of his favourite dogs. Among the latter was an especial one, of the true Skye
breed, called "Pickle," from which soubriquet we may form a tolerable estimate of his qualities.

It happened one day, in or about the year 1827, that poor Pickle, during the absence of his
master, was taken unwell; and the watchful guardian immediately warned the Marquis of the sad
fact, and of the progress of the disease, which lasted three days--for which he sent the three
following laconic despatches:--

     Yester, May 1st, 18--.
     MY LORD,
     Pickle's no weel.
     Your Lordship's humble servant, etc.

     Yester, May Id, 18--.
     MY LORD,
     Pickle will no do.
     I am your Lordship's, etc.

     Tester, May 3d, 18--.
     MY LORD,
     Pickle's dead.
     I am your Lordship's, etc.

I have heard of an old Forfarshire lady who, knowing the habits of her old and spoilt servant,
when she wished a note to be taken without loss of time, held it open and read it over to him,
saying, "There, noo, Andrew, ye ken a' that's in't; noo dinna stop to open it, but just send
it aff." Of another servant, when sorely tried by an unaccustomed bustle and hurry, a very
amusing anecdote has been recorded. His mistress, a woman of high rank, who had been living
in much quiet and retirement for some time, was called upon to entertain a large party at dinner.
She consulted with Nichol, her faithful servant, and all the arrangements were made for the
great event. As the company were arriving, the lady saw Nichol running about in great agitation,
and in his shirt sleeves. She remonstrated, and said that as the guests were coming in he must
put on his coat, "Indeed, my lady," was his excited reply, "indeed, there's sae muckle rinnin'
here and rinnin' there, that I'm just distrackit. I hae cuist'n my coat and waistcoat, and
faith I dinna ken how lang I can thole[42] my breeks." There is often a ready wit in this class
of character, marked by their replies. I have the following communicated from an ear-witness:--"Weel,
Peggy," said a man to an old family servant, "I wonder ye're aye single yet!" "Me marry," said
she, indignantly; "I wouldna gie my single life for a' the double anes I ever saw!"

An old woman was exhorting a servant once about her ways. "You serve the deevil," said she.
"Me!" said the girl; "na, na, I dinna serve the deevil; I serve ae single lady."

A baby was out with the nurse, who walked it up and down the garden. "Is't a laddie or a lassie?"
said the gardener. "A laddie," said the maid. "Weel," says he, "I'm glad o' that, for there's
ower mony women in the world." "Hech, man," said Jess, "div ye no ken there's aye maist sawn
o' the best crap?"

The answers of servants used curiously to illustrate habits and manners of the time,--as the
economical modes of her mistress's life were well touched by the lass who thus described her
ways and domestic habits with her household: "She's vicious upo' the wark; but eh, she's vary
mysterious o' the victualling."

A country habit of making the gathering of the congregation in the churchyard previous to and
after divine service an occasion for gossip and business, which I remember well, is thoroughly
described in the following:--A lady, on hiring a servant girl in the country, told her, as
a great indulgence, that she should have the liberty of attending the church every Sunday,
but that she would be expected to return home always immediately on the conclusion of service.
The lady, however, rather unexpectedly found a positive objection raised against this apparently
reasonable arrangement. "Then I canna engage wi' ye, mem; for 'deed I wadna gie the crack i'
the kirk-yard for a' the sermon."

There is another story which shows that a greater importance might be attached to the crack
i' the kirk-yard than was done even by the servant lass mentioned above. A rather rough subject,
residing in Galloway, used to attend church regularly, as it appeared, for the sake of the
crack; for on being taken to task for his absenting himself, he remarked, "There's nae need
to gang to the kirk noo, for everybody gets a newspaper."

The changes that many of us have lived to witness in this kind of intercourse between families
and old servants is a part of a still greater change--the change in that modification of the
feudal system, the attachment of clans. This, also, from transfers of property and extinction
of old families in the Highlands, as well as from more general causes, is passing away; and
it includes also changes in the intercourse between landed proprietors and cottagers, and abolition
of harvest-homes, and such meetings. People are now more independent of each other, and service
has become a pecuniary and not a sentimental question. The extreme contrast of that old-fashioned
Scottish intercourse of families with their servants and dependants, of which I have given
some amusing examples, is found in the modern manufactory system. There the service is a mere
question of personal interest. One of our first practical engineers, and one of the first engine-makers
in England, stated that he employed and paid handsomely on an average 1200 workmen; but that
they held so little feeling for him as their master, that not above half-a-dozen of the number
would notice him when passing him, either in the works or out of work hours. Contrast this
advanced state of dependants' indifference with the familiarity of domestic intercourse we
have been describing!

It has been suggested by my esteemed friend, Dr. W. Lindsay Alexander, that Scottish anecdotes
deal too exclusively with the shrewd, quaint, and pawky humour of our countrymen, and have
not sufficiently illustrated the deep pathos and strong loving-kindness of the "kindly Scot,"--qualities
which, however little appreciated across the Border, abound in Scottish poetry and Scottish
life. For example, to take the case before us of these old retainers, although snappy and disagreeable
to the last degree in their replies, and often most provoking in their ways, they were yet
deeply and sincerely attached to the family where they had so long been domesticated; and the
servant who would reply to her mistress's order to mend the fire by the short answer, "The
fire's weel eneuch," would at the same time evince much interest in all that might assist her
in sustaining the credit of her domestic economy; as, for example, whispering in her ear at
dinner, "Press the jeelies; they winna keep;" and had the hour of real trial and of difficulty
come to the family, would have gone to the death for them, and shared their greatest privations.
Dr. Alexander gives a very interesting example of kindness and affectionate attachment in an
old Scottish domestic of his own family, whose quaint and odd familiarity was charming. I give
it in his own words:--"When I was a child there was an old servant at Pinkieburn, where my
early days were spent, who had been all her life, I may say, in the house--for she came to
it a child, and lived, without ever leaving it, till she died in it, seventy-five years of
age. Her feeling to her old master, who was just two years younger than herself, was a curious
compound of the deference of a servant and the familiarity and affection of a sister. She had
known him as a boy, lad, man, and old man, and she seemed to have a sort of notion that without
her he must be a very helpless being indeed. 'I aye keepit the hoose for him, whether he was
hame or awa',' was a frequent utterance of hers; and she never seemed to think the intrusion
even of his own nieces, who latterly lived with him, at all legitimate. When on her deathbed,
he hobbled to her room with difficulty, having just got over a severe attack of gout, to bid
her farewell. I chanced to be present, but was too young to remember what passed, except one
thing, which probably was rather recalled to me afterwards than properly recollected by me.
It was her last request. 'Laird,' said she (for so she always called him, though his lairdship
was of the smallest), 'will ye tell them to bury me whaur I'll lie across at your feet?' I
have always thought this characteristic of the old Scotch servant, and as such I send it to you."

And here I would introduce another story which struck me very forcibly as illustrating the
union of the qualities referred to by Dr. Alexander. In the following narrative, how deep and
tender a feeling is expressed in a brief dry sentence! I give Mr. Scott's language[43]:--"My
brother and I were, during our High School vacation, some forty years ago, very much indebted
to the kindness of a clever young carpenter employed in the machinery workshop of New Lanark
Mills, near to which we were residing during our six weeks' holidays." It was he--Samuel Shaw,
our dear companion--who first taught us to saw, and to plane, and to turn too; and who made
us the bows and arrows in which we so much delighted. The vacation over, and our hearts very
sore, but bound to Samuel Shaw for ever, our mother sought to place some pecuniary recompense
in his hand at parting, for all the great kindness he had shown her boys. Samuel looked in
her face, and gently moving her hand aside, with an affectionate look cast upon us, who were
by, exclaimed, in a tone which had sorrow in it, "Noo, Mrs. Scott, ye hae spoilt a'." After
such an appeal, it may be supposed no recompense, in silver or in gold, remained with Samuel Shaw.

On the subject of the old Scottish domestic, I have to acknowledge a kind communication from
Lord Kinloch, which I give in his Lordship's words:--"My father had been in the counting-house
of the well-known David Dale, the founder of the Lanark Mills, and eminent for his benevolence.
Mr. Dale, who it would appear was a short stout man, had a person in his employment named Matthew,
who was permitted that familiarity with his master which was so characteristic of the former
generation. One winter day Mr. Dale came into the counting-house, and complained that he had
fallen on the ice. Matthew, who saw that his master was not much hurt, grinned a sarcastic
smile. 'I fell all my length,' said Mr. Dale. 'Nae great length, sir,' said Matthew. 'Indeed,
Matthew, ye need not laugh,' said Mr. Dale; 'I have hurt the sma' o' my back.' 'I wunner whaur
that is,' said Matthew." Indeed, specimens like Matthew, of serving-men of the former time,
have latterly been fast going out, but I remember one or two such. A lady of my acquaintance
had one named John in her house at Portobello. I remember how my modern ideas were offended
by John's familiarity when waiting at table. "Some more wine, John," said his mistress. "There's
some i' the bottle, mem," said John. A little after, "Mend the fire, John." "The fire's weel
eneuch, mem," replied the impracticable John. Another "John" of my acquaintance was in the
family of Mrs. Campbell of Ardnave, mother of the Princess Polignac and the Hon. Mrs. Archibald
Macdonald. A young lady visiting in the family asked John at dinner for a potato. John made
no response. The request was repeated; when John, putting his mouth to her ear, said, very
audibly, "There's jist twa in the dish, and they maun be keepit for the strangers."

The following was sent me by a kind correspondent--a learned Professor in India--as a sample
of squabbling between Scottish servants. A mistress observing something peculiar in her maid's
manner, addressed her, "Dear me, Tibbie, what are you so snappish about, that you go knocking
the things as you dust them?" "Ou, mem, it's Jock." "Well, what has Jock been doing?" "Ou (with
an indescribable, but easily imaginable toss of the head), he was angry at me, an' misca'd
me, an' I said I was juist as the Lord had made me, an'----" "Well, Tibbie?" "An' he said the
Lord could hae had little to dae whan he made me." The idea of Tibbie being the work of an
idle moment was one, the deliciousness of which was not likely to be relished by the lassie.

The following characteristic anecdote of a Highland servant I have received from the same correspondent.
An English gentleman, travelling in the Highlands, was rather late of coming down to dinner.
Donald was sent up stairs to intimate that all was ready. He speedily returned, nodding significantly,
as much as to say that it was all right. "But, Donald," said the master, after some further
trial of a hungry man's patience, "are ye sure ye made the gentleman understand?" "Understand?"
retorted Donald (who had peeped into the room and found the guest engaged at his toilet), "I'se
warrant ye he understands; he's sharping his teeth,"--not supposing the tooth-brush could be
for any other use.

There have been some very amusing instances given of the matter-of-fact obedience paid to orders
by Highland retainers when made to perform the ordinary duties of domestic servants; as when
Mr. Campbell, a Highland gentleman, visiting in a country house, and telling Donald to bring
everything out of the bedroom, found all its movable articles--fender, fire-irons, etc.--piled
up in the lobby; so literal was the poor man's sense of obedience to orders! And of this he
gave a still more extraordinary proof during his sojourn in Edinburgh, by a very ludicrous
exploit. When the family moved into a house there, Mrs. Campbell gave him very particular instructions
regarding visitors, explaining that they were to be shown into the drawing-room, and no doubt
used the Scotticism, "Carry any ladies that call up stairs." On the arrival of the first visitors,
Donald was eager to show his strict attention to the mistress's orders. Two ladies came together,
and Donald, seizing one in his arms, said to the other, "Bide ye there till I come for ye,"
and, in spite of her struggles and remonstrances, ushered the terrified visitor into Mrs. Campbell's
presence in this unwonted fashion.

Another case of literal obedience to orders produced a somewhat startling form of message.
A servant of an old maiden lady, a patient of Dr. Poole, formerly of Edinburgh, was under orders
to go to the doctor every morning to report the state of her health, how she had slept, etc.,
with strict injunctions always to add, "with her compliments." At length, one morning the girl
brought this extraordinary message:--"Miss S----'s compliments, and she dee'd last night at
aicht o'clock!"

I recollect, in Montrose (that fruitful field for old Scottish stories!), a most naïve reply
from an honest lass, servant to old Mrs. Captain Fullerton. A party of gentlemen had dined
with Mrs. Fullerton, and they had a turkey for dinner. Mrs. F. proposed that one of the legs
should be deviled, and the gentlemen have it served up as a relish for their wine. Accordingly
one of the company skilled in the mystery prepared it with pepper, cayenne, mustard, ketchup,
etc. He gave it to Lizzy, and told her to take it down to the kitchen, supposing, as a matter
of course, she would know that it was to be broiled, and brought back in due time. But in a
little while, when it was rung for, Lizzy very innocently replied that she had eaten it up.
As it was sent back to the kitchen, her only idea was that it must be for herself. But on surprise
being expressed that she had eaten what was so highly peppered and seasoned, she very quaintly
answered, "Ou, I liket it a' the better."

A well-known servant of the old school was John, the servant of Pitfour, Mr. Ferguson, M.P.,
himself a most eccentric character, long father of the House of Commons, and a great friend
of Pitt. John used to entertain the tenants, on Pitfour's brief visits to his estate, with
numerous anecdotes of his master and Mr. Pitt; but he always prefaced them with something in
the style of Cardinal Wolsey's Ego et rex meus--with "Me, and Pitt, and Pitfour," went somewhere,
or performed some exploit. The famous Duchess of Gordon once wrote a note to John (the name
of this eccentric valet), and said, "John, put Pitfour into the carriage on Tuesday, and bring
him up to Gordon Castle to dinner." After sufficiently scratching his head, and considering
what he should do, he showed the letter to Pitfour, who smiled, and said drily, "Well, John,
I suppose we must go."

An old domestic of this class gave a capital reason to his young master for his being allowed
to do as he liked:--"Ye needna find faut wi' me, Maister Jeems; I hae been langer aboot the
place than yersel."

It may seem ungracious to close this chapter with a communication which appears to convey an
unfavourable impression of an old servant. But the truth is, real and attached domestic service
does not offer its pleasures and advantages without some alloy of annoyance, and yet how much
the solid benefits prevail over any occasional drawbacks!

The late Rev. Mr. Leslie of St. Andrew-Lhanbryd, a parish in Morayshire, in describing an old
servant who had been with him thirty years, said, "The first ten years she was an excellent
servant; the second ten she was a good mistress; but the third ten she was a perfect tyrant."

CHAPTER THE FIFTH.

SCOTTISH JUDGES.

There is no class of men which stands out more prominent in the reminiscences of the last hundred
years than that of our SCOTTISH JUDGES. They form, in many instances, a type or representative
of the leading peculiarities of Scottish life and manners. They are mixed up with all our affairs,
social and political. There are to be found in the annals of the bench rich examples of pure
Scottish humour, the strongest peculiarity of Scottish phraseology, acuteness of intellect,
cutting wit, eccentricity of manners, and abundant powers of conviviality. Their successors
no longer furnish the same anecdotes of oddity or of intemperance. The Courts of the Scottish
Parliament House, without lacking the learning or the law of those who sat there sixty years
ago, lack not the refinement and the dignity that have long distinguished the Courts of Westminster
Hall.

Stories still exist, traditionary in society, amongst its older members, regarding Lords Gardenstone,
Monboddo, Hermand, Newton, Polkemmet, Braxfield, etc. But many younger persons do not know
them. It may be interesting to some of my readers to devote a few pages to the subject, and
to offer some judicial gleanings[44].

I have two anecdotes to show that, both in social and judicial life, a remarkable change must
have taken place amongst the "fifteen." I am assured that the following scene took place at
the table of Lord Polkemmet, at a dinner party in his house. When the covers were removed,
the dinner was seen to consist of veal broth, a roast fillet of veal, veal cutlets, a florentine
(an excellent old Scottish dish composed of veal), a calf's head, calf's foot jelly. The worthy
judge could not help observing a surprise on the countenance of his guests, and perhaps a simper
on some; so he broke out in explanation: "Ou ay, it's a cauf; when we kill a beast we just
eat up ae side, and down the tither." The expressions he used to describe his own judicial
preparations for the bench were very characteristic: "Ye see I first read a' the pleadings,
and then, after lettin' them wamble in my wame wi' the toddy twa or three days, I gie my ain
interlocutor." For a moment suppose such anecdotes to be told now of any of our high legal
functionaries. Imagine the feelings of surprise that would be called forth were the present
Justice-Clerk to adopt such imagery in describing the process of preparing his legal judgment
on a difficult case in his court!

In regard to the wit of the Scottish bar.--It is a subject which I do not pretend to illustrate.
It would require a volume for itself. One anecdote, however, I cannot resist, and I record
it as forming a striking example of the class of Scottish humour which, with our dialect, has
lost its distinctive characteristics. John Clerk (afterwards a judge by the title of Lord Eldin)
was arguing a Scotch appeal case before the House of Lords. His client claimed the use of a
mill-stream by a prescriptive right. Mr. Clerk spoke broad Scotch, and argued that "the watter
had rin that way for forty years. Indeed naebody kenn'd how long, and why should his client
now be deprived of the watter?" etc. The chancellor, much amused at the pronunciation of the
Scottish advocate, in a rather bantering tone asked him, "Mr. Clerk, do you spell water in
Scotland with two t's?" Clerk, a little nettled at this hit at his national tongue, answered,
"Na, my Lord, we dinna spell watter (making the word as short as he could) wi' twa t's, but
we spell mainners (making the word as long as he could) wi' twa n's."

John Clerk's vernacular version of the motto of the Celtic Club is highly characteristic of
his humour and his prejudice. He had a strong dislike to the whole Highland race, and the motto
assumed by the modern Celts, "Olim marte, nunc arte," Clerk translated "Formerly robbers, now
thieves." Quite equal to Swift's celebrated remark on William III.'s motto--Recepit, non rapuit--"that
the receiver was as bad as the thief." Very dry and pithy too was Clerk's legal opinion given
to a claimant of the Annandale peerage, who, when pressing the employment of some obvious forgeries,
was warned that if he persevered, nae doot he might be a peer, but it would be a peer o' anither
tree!

The clever author of "Peter's Letters" gives an elaborate description of Clerk's character
whilst at the bar, and speaks of him as "the plainest, the shrewdest, and the most sarcastic
of men." Nor could he entirely repress these peculiarities when raised to the bench under the
title of Lord Eldin.

His defence of a young friend, who was an advocate, and had incurred the displeasure of the
Judges, has often been repeated. Mr. Clerk had been called upon to offer his apologies for
disrespect, or implied disrespect, in his manner of addressing the Bench. The advocate had
given great offence by expressing his "astonishment" at something which had emanated from their
Lordships, implying by it his disapproval. He got Lord Eldin, who was connected with him, to
make an apology for him. But Clerk could not resist his humorous vein by very equivocally adding,
"My client has expressed his astonishment, my Lords, at what he had met with here; if my young
friend had known this court as long as I have, he would have been astonished at nothing."

A kind Perthshire correspondent has sent me a characteristic anecdote, which has strong internal
evidence of being genuine. When Clerk was raised to the Bench he presented his credentials
to the Court, and, according to custom, was received by the presiding Judge--who, on this occasion,
in a somewhat sarcastic tone, referred to the delay which had taken place in his reaching a
position for which he had so long been qualified, and to which he must have long aspired. He
hinted at the long absence of the Whig party from political power as the cause of this delay,
which offended Clerk; and he paid it off by intimating in his pithy and bitter tone, which
he could so well assume, that it was not of so much consequence--"Because," as he said, "ye
see, my Lord, I was not juist sae sune doited as some o' your Lordships."

The following account of his conducting a case is also highly characteristic. Two individuals,
the one a mason, the other a carpenter, both residenters in West Portsburgh, formed a copartnery,
and commenced building houses within the boundaries of the burgh corporation. One of the partners
was a freeman, the other not. The corporation, considering its rights invaded by a non-freeman
exercising privileges only accorded to one of their body, brought an action in the Court of
Session against the interloper, and his partner as aiding and abetting. Mr. John Clerk, then
an advocate, was engaged for the defendants. How the cause was decided matters little. What
was really curious in the affair was the naively droll manner in which the advocate for the
defence opened his pleading before the Lord Ordinary. "My Lord," commenced John, in his purest
Doric, at the same time pushing up his spectacles to his brow and hitching his gown over his
shoulders, "I wad hae thocht naething o't (the action), had hooses been a new invention, and
my clients been caught ouvertly impingin' on the patent richts o' the inventors!"

Of Lord Gardenstone (Francis Garden) I have many early personal reminiscences, as his property
of Johnstone was in the Howe of the Mearns, not far from my early home. He was a man of energy,
and promoted improvements in the county with skill and practical sagacity. His favourite scheme
was to establish a flourishing town upon his property, and he spared no pains or expense in
promoting the importance of his village of Laurencekirk. He built an excellent inn, to render
it a stage for posting. He built and endowed an Episcopal chapel for the benefit of his English
immigrants, in the vestry of which he placed a most respectable library; and he encouraged
manufacturers of all kinds to settle in the place. Amongst others, as we have seen, came the
hatter who found only three hats in the kirk. His lordship was much taken up with his hotel
or inn, and for which he provided a large volume for receiving the written contributions of
travellers who frequented it. It was the landlady's business to present this volume to the
guests, and ask them to write in it during the evenings whatever occurred to their memory or
their imagination. In the mornings it was a favourite amusement of Lord Gardenstone to look
it over. I recollect Sir Walter Scott being much taken with this contrivance, and his asking
me about it at Abbotsford. His son said to him, "You should establish such a book, sir, at
Melrose;" upon which Sir W. replied, "No, Walter; I should just have to see a great deal of
abuse of myself." On his son deprecating such a result, and on his observing my surprised look,
he answered, "Well, well, I should have to read a great deal of foolish praise, which is much
the same thing." An amusing account is given of the cause of Lord Gardenstone withdrawing this
volume from the hotel, and of his determination to submit it no more to the tender mercies
of the passing traveller. As Professor Stuart of Aberdeen was passing an evening at the inn,
the volume was handed to him, and he wrote in it the following lines, in the style of the prophecies
of Thomas the Rhymer:--

     "Frae sma' beginnings Rome of auld
      Became a great imperial city;
      'Twas peopled first, as we are tauld,
      By bankrupts, vagabonds, banditti.
      Quoth Thamas, Then the day may come,
      When Laurencekirk shall equal Rome."

These lines so nettled Lord Gardenstone, that the volume disappeared, and was never seen afterwards
in the inn of Laurencekirk. There is another lingering reminiscence which I retain connected
with the inn at Laurencekirk. The landlord, Mr. Cream, was a man well known throughout all
the county, and was distinguished, in his later years, as one of the few men who continued
to wear a pigtail. On one occasion the late Lord Dunmore (grandfather or great-grandfather
of the present peer), who also still wore his queue, halted for a night at Laurencekirk. On
the host leaving the room, where he had come to take orders for supper, Lord Dunmore turned
to his valet and said, "Johnstone, do I look as like a fool in my pigtail as Billy Cream does?"--"Much
about it, my lord," was the valet's imperturbable answer. "Then," said his lordship, "cut off
mine to-morrow morning when I dress."

Lord Gardenstone seemed to have had two favourite tastes: he indulged in the love of pigs and
the love of snuff. He took a young pig as a pet, and it became quite tame, and followed him
about like a dog. At first the animal shared his bed, but when, growing up to advanced swinehood,
it became unfit for such companionship, he had it to sleep in his room, in which he made a
comfortable couch for it of his own clothes. His snuff he kept not in a box, but in a leathern
waist-pocket made for the purpose. He took it in enormous quantities, and used to say that
if he had a dozen noses he would feed them all. Lord Gardenstone died 1793.

Lord Monboddo (James Burnet, Esq. of Monboddo) is another of the well-known members of the
Scottish Bench, who combined, with many eccentricities of opinion and habits, great learning
and a most amiable disposition. From his paternal property being in the county of Kincardine,
and Lord M. being a visitor at my father's house, and indeed a relation or clansman, I have
many early reminiscences of stories which I have heard of the learned judge. His speculations
regarding the origin of the human race have, in times past, excited much interest and amusement.
His theory was that man emerged from a wild and savage condition, much resembling that of apes;
that man had then a tail like other animals, but which by progressive civilisation and the
constant habit of sitting, had become obsolete. This theory produced many a joke from facetious
and superficial people, who had never read any of the arguments of the able and elaborate work,
by which the ingenious and learned author maintained his theory[45]. Lord Kames, a brother
judge, had his joke on it. On some occasion of their meeting, Lord Monboddo was for giving
Lord Kames the precedency. Lord K. declined, and drew back, saying, "By no means, my lord;
you must walk first, that I may see your tail." I recollect Lord Monboddo's coming to dine
at Fasque caused a great excitement of interest and curiosity. I was in the nursery, too young
to take part in the investigations; but my elder brothers were on the alert to watch his arrival,
and get a glimpse of his tail. Lord M. was really a learned man, read Greek and Latin authors--not
as a mere exercise of classical scholarship--but because he identified himself with their philosophical
opinions, and would have revived Greek customs and modes of life. He used to give suppers after
the manner of the ancients, and used to astonish his guests by the ancient cookery of Spartan
broth, and of mulsum. He was an enthusiastical Platonist. On a visit to Oxford, he was received
with great respect by the scholars of the University, who were much interested in meeting with
one who had studied Plato as a pupil and follower. In accordance with the old custom at learned
universities, Lord Monboddo was determined to address the Oxonians in Latin, which he spoke
with much readiness. But they could not stand the numerous slips in prosody. Lord Monboddo
shocked the ears of the men of Eton and of Winchester by dreadful false quantities--verse-making
being, in Scotland, then quite neglected, and a matter little thought of by the learned judge.

Lord Monboddo was considered an able lawyer, and on many occasions exhibited a very clear and
correct judicial discernment of intricate cases. It was one of his peculiarities that he never
sat on the bench with his brother judges, but always at the clerk's table. Different reasons
for this practice have been given, but the simple fact seems to have been, that he was deaf,
and heard better at the lower seat. His mode of travelling was on horseback. He scorned carriages,
on the ground of its being unmanly to "sit in a box drawn by brutes." When he went to London
he rode the whole way. At the same period, Mr. Barclay of Ury (father of the well-known Captain
Barclay), when he represented Kincardineshire in Parliament, always walked to London. He was
a very powerful man, and could walk fifty miles a day, his usual refreshment on the road being
a bottle of port wine, poured into a bowl, and drunk off at a draught. I have heard that George
III. was much interested at these performances, and said, "I ought to be proud of my Scottish
subjects, when my judges ride, and my members of Parliament walk to the metropolis."

On one occasion of his being in London, Lord Monboddo attended a trial in the Court of King's
Bench. A cry was heard that the roof of the court-room was giving way, upon which judges, lawyers,
and people made a rush to get to the door. Lord Monboddo viewed the scene from his corner with
much composure. Being deaf and short-sighted, he knew nothing of the cause of the tumult. The
alarm proved a false one; and on being asked why he had not bestirred himself to escape like
the rest, he coolly answered that he supposed it was an annual ceremony, with which, as an
alien to the English laws, he had no concern, but which he considered it interesting to witness
as a remnant of antiquity! Lord Monboddo died 1799.

Lord Rockville (the Hon. Alexander Gordon, third son of the Earl of Aberdeen) was a judge distinguished
in his day by his ability and decorum. "He adorned the bench by the dignified manliness of
his appearance, and polished urbanity of his manners[46]." Like most lawyers of his time, he
took his glass freely, and a whimsical account which he gave, before he was advanced to the
bench, of his having fallen upon his face, after making too free with the bottle, was commonly
current at the time. Upon his appearing late at a convivial club with a most rueful expression
of countenance, and on being asked what was the matter, he exclaimed with great solemnity,
"Gentlemen, I have just met with the most extraordinary adventure that ever occurred to a human
being. As I was walking along the Grassmarket, all of a sudden the street rose up and struck
me on the face." He had, however, a more serious encounter with the street after he was a judge.
In 1792, his foot slipped as he was going to the Parliament House; he broke his leg, was taken
home, fevered, and died.

Lord Braxfield (Robert M'Queen of Braxfield) was one of the judges of the old school, well
known in his day, and might be said to possess all the qualities united, by which the class
were remarkable. He spoke the broadest Scotch. He was a sound and laborious lawyer. He was
fond of a glass of good claret, and had a great fund of good Scotch humour. He rose to the
dignity of Justice-Clerk, and, in consequence, presided at many important political criminal
trials about the year 1793-4, such as those of Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, Gerrold, etc.
He conducted these trials with much ability and great firmness, occasionally, no doubt, with
more appearance of severity and personal prejudice than is usual with the judges who in later
times are called on to preside on similar occasions. The disturbed temper of the times and
the daring spirit of the political offenders seemed, he thought, to call for a bold and fearless
front on the part of the judge, and Braxfield was the man to show it, both on the bench and
in common life. He met, however, sometimes with a spirit as bold as his own from the prisoners
before him. When Skirving was on trial for sedition, he thought Braxfield was threatening him,
and by gesture endeavouring to intimidate him; accordingly, he boldly addressed the Bench:--"It
is altogether unavailing for your Lordship to menace me, for I have long learnt not to fear
the face of man." I have observed that he adhered to the broadest Scottish dialect. "Hae ye
ony coonsel, man?" he said to Maurice Margarot (who, I believe, was an Englishman). "No," was
the reply. "Div ye want to hae ony appinted?" "No," replied Margarot; "I only want an interpreter
to make me understand what your Lordship says." A prisoner, accused of stealing some linen
garments, was one day brought up for trial before the old judge, but was acquitted because
the prosecutor had charged him with stealing shirts, whereas the articles stolen were found
to be shifts--female apparel. Braxfield indignantly remarked that the Crown Counsel should
have called them by the Scottish name of sarks, which applied to both sexes.

Braxfield had much humour, and enjoyed wit in others. He was immensely delighted at a reply
by Dr. M'Cubbin, the minister of Bothwell. Braxfield, when Justice-Clerk, was dining at Lord
Douglas's, and observed there was only port upon the table. In his usual off-hand brusque manner,
he demanded of the noble host if "there was nae claret i' the castle." "Yes," said Lord Douglas;
"but my butler tells me it is not good." "Let's pree't," said Braxfield in his favourite dialect.
A bottle was produced, and declared by all present to be quite excellent. "Noo, minister,"
said the old judge, addressing Dr. M'Cubbin, who was celebrated as a wit in his day, "as a
fama clamosa has gone forth against this wine, I propose that you absolve it,"--playing upon
the terms made use of in the Scottish Church Courts. "Ay, my Lord," said the minister, "you
are first-rate authority for a case of civil or criminal law, but you do not quite understand
our Church Court practice. We never absolve till after three several appearances." The wit
and the condition of absolution were alike relished by the judge. Lord Braxfield closed a long
and useful life in 1799.

Of Lord Hermand we have already had occasion to speak, as in fact his name has become in some
manner identified with that conviviality which marked almost as a characteristic the Scottish
Bench of his time. He gained, however, great distinction as a judge, and was a capital lawyer.
When at the bar, Lords Newton and Hermand were great friends, and many were the convivial meetings
they enjoyed together. But Lord Hermand outlived all his old last-century contemporaries, and
formed with Lord Balgray what we may consider the connecting links between the past and the
present race of Scottish lawyers.

Lord Kames was a keen agricultural experimentalist, and in his Gentleman Farmer anticipated
many modern improvements. He was, however, occasionally too sanguine. "John," said he one day
to his old overseer, "I think we'll see the day when a man may carry out as much chemical manure
in his waistcoat pocket as will serve for a whole field." "Weel," rejoined the other, "I am
of opinion that if your lordship were to carry out the dung in your waistcoat pocket, ye might
bring hame the crap in your greatcoat pocket."

We could scarcely perhaps offer a more marked difference between habits once tolerated on the
bench and those which now distinguish the august seat of Senators of Justice, than by quoting,
from Kay's Portraits, vol. ii. p. 278, a sally of a Lord of Session of those days, which he
played off, when sitting as judge, upon a young friend whom he was determined to frighten.
"A young counsel was addressing him on some not very important point that had arisen in the
division of a common (or commonty, according to law phraseology), when, having made some bold
averment, the judge exclaimed, 'That's a lee, Jemmie,' 'My lord!' ejaculated the amazed barrister.
'Ay, ay, Jemmie; I see by your face ye're leein'.' 'Indeed, my lord, I am not.' 'Dinna tell
me that; it's no in your memorial (brief)--awa wi' you;' and, overcome with astonishment and
vexation, the discomfited barrister left the bar. The judge thereupon chuckled with infinite
delight; and beckoning to the clerk who attended on the occasion, he said, 'Are ye no Rabbie
H----'s man?' 'Yes, my lord.' 'Wasna Jemmie----leein'?' 'Oh no, my lord.' 'Ye're quite sure?'
Oh yes.' 'Then just write out what you want, and I'll sign it; my faith, but I made Jemmie
stare.' So the decision was dictated by the clerk, and duly signed by the judge, who left the
bench highly diverted with the fright he had given his young friend." Such scenes enacted in
court now would astonish the present generation, both of lawyers and of suitors.

We should not do justice to our Scottish Reminiscences of judges and lawyers, if we omitted
the once celebrated Court of Session jeu d'esprit called the "Diamond Beetle Case." This burlesque
report of a judgment was written by George Cranstoun, advocate, who afterwards sat in court
as judge under the title of Lord Corehouse. Cranstoun was one of the ablest lawyers of his
time; he was a prime scholar, and a man of most refined taste and clear intellect. This humorous
and clever production was printed in a former edition of these Reminiscences, and in a very
flattering notice of the book which appeared in the North British Review, the reviewer--himself,
as is well known, a distinguished member of the Scottish judicial bench--remarks: "We are glad
that the whole of the 'Diamond Beetle' by Cranstoun has been given; for nothing can be more
graphic, spirited, and ludicrous, than the characteristic speeches of the learned judges who
deliver their opinions in the case of defamation." As copies of this very clever and jocose
production are not now easily obtained, and as some of my younger readers may not have seen
it, I have reprinted it in this edition. Considered in the light of a memorial of the bench,
as it was known to a former generation, it is well worth preserving; for, as the editor of
Kay's Portraits well observes, although it is a caricature, it is entirely without rancour,
or any feeling of a malevolent nature towards those whom the author represents as giving judgment
in the "Diamond Beetle" case. And in no way could the involved phraseology of Lord Bannatyne,
the predilection for Latin quotation of Lord Meadowbank, the brisk manner of Lord Hermand,
the anti-Gallic feeling of Lord Craig, the broad dialect of Lords Polkemmet and Balmuto, and
the hesitating manner of Lord Methven, be more admirably caricatured.

     FULL COPY OF THE FINDING OF THE COURT IN
        THE ONCE CELEBRATED "DIAMOND BEETLE
        CASE[47]."

     Speeches taken at advising the Action of Defamation and
        Damages, ALEXANDER CUNNINGHAM, Jeweller in
        Edinburgh, against JAMES EUSSELL, Surgeon there.

     "THE LORD PRESIDENT (Sir ILAY CAMPBELL).--Your Lordships
     have the petition of Alexander Cunningham against Lord
     Bannatyne's interlocutor. It is a case of defamation and
     damages for calling the petitioner's Diamond Beetle an
     Egyptian Louse. You have the Lord Ordinary's distinct
     interlocutor, on pages 29 and 30 of this petition:--'Having
     considered the Condescendence of the pursuer, Answers for the
     defender,' and so on; 'Finds, in respect that it is not
     alleged that the diamonds on the back of the Diamond Beetle
     are real diamonds, or anything but shining spots, such as are
     found on other Diamond Beetles, which likewise occur, though
     in a smaller number, on a great number of other Beetles,
     somewhat different from the Beetle libelled, and similar to
     which there may be Beetles in Egypt, with shining spots on
     their backs, which may be termed Lice there, and may be
     different not only from the common Louse, but from the Louse
     mentioned by Moses as one of the plagues of Egypt, which is
     admitted to be a filthy troublesome Louse, even worse than
     the said Louse, which is clearly different from the Louse
     libelled. But that the other Louse is the same with, or
     similar to, the said Beetle, which is also the same with the
     other Beetle; and although different from the said Beetle
     libelled, yet, as the said Beetle is similar to the other
     Beetle, and the said Louse to the other Louse libelled; and
     the other Louse to the other Beetle, which is the same with,
     or similar to, the Beetle which somewhat resembles the Beetle
     libelled; assoilzies the defender, and finds expenses due.'

     "Say away, my Lords.

     "LORD MEADOWBANK.--This is a very intricate and puzzling
     question, my Lord. I have formed no decided opinion; but at
     present I am rather inclined to think the interlocutor is
     right, though not upon the ratio assigned in it. It appears
     to me that there are two points for consideration. First,
     whether the words libelled amount to a convicium against
     the Beetle; and Secondly, admitting the convicium,
     whether the pursuer is entitled to found upon it in this
     action. Now, my Lords, if there be a convicium at all, it
     consists in the comparatio or comparison of the
     Scaraboeus or Beetle with the Egyptian Pediculus or
     Louse. My first doubt regards this point, but it is not at
     all founded on what the defender alleges, that there is no
     such animal as an Egyptian Pediculus or Louse in rerum
     natura; for though it does not actually exist, it may
     possibly exist (if not in actio, yet in potentia--if
     not in actuality, yet in potentiality or capacity); and
     whether its existence be in esse vel posse, is the same
     thing to this question, provided there be termini habiles
     for ascertaining what it would be if it did exist. But my
     doubt is here:--How am I to discover what are the essentia
     of any Louse, whether Egyptian or not? It is very easy to
     describe its accidents as a naturalist would do--to say that
     it belongs to the tribe of Aptera (or, that is, a yellow,
     little, greedy, filthy, despicable reptile), but we do not
     learn from this what the proprium of the animal is in a
     logical sense, and still less what its differentia are.
     Now, without these it is impossible to judge whether there is
     a convicium or not; for, in a case of this kind, which
     sequitur naturam delicti, we must take them meliori
     sensu, and presume the comparatio to be in melioribus
     tantum. And here I beg that parties, and the bar in
     general--[interrupted by Lord Hermand: Your Lordship should
     address yourself to the Chair]--I say, I beg it may be
     understood that I do not rest my opinion on the ground that
     veritas convicii excusat. I am clear that although this
     Beetle actually were an Egyptian Louse, it would accord no
     relevant defence, provided the calling it so were a
     convicium; and there my doubt lies.

     "With regard to the second point, I am satisfied that the
     Scaraboeus or Beetle itself has no persona standi in
     judicio; and therefore the pursuer cannot insist in the name
     of the Scaraboeus, or for his behoof. If the action lie at
     all, it must be at the instance of the pursuer himself, as
     the verus dominus of the Scaraboeus, for being
     calumniated through the convicium directed primarily
     against the animal standing in that relation to him. Now,
     abstracting from the qualification of an actual dominium,
     which is not alleged, I have great doubts whether a mere
     convicium is necessarily transmitted from one object to
     another, through the relation of a dominium subsisting
     between them; and if not necessarily transmissible, we must
     see the principle of its actual transmission here; and that
     has not yet been pointed out.

     "LORD HERMAND.--We heard a little ago, my Lord, that there is
     a difficulty in this case; but I have not been fortunate
     enough, for my part, to find out where the difficulty lies.
     Will any man presume to tell me that a Beetle is not a
     Beetle, and that a Louse is not a Louse? I never saw the
     petitioner's Beetle, and what's more I don't care whether I
     ever see it or not; but I suppose it's like other Beetles,
     and that's enough for me.

     "But, my Lord, I know the other reptile well. I have seen
     them, I have felt them, my Lord, ever since I was a child in
     my mother's arms; and my mind tells me that nothing but the
     deepest and blackest malice rankling in the human breast
     could have suggested this comparison, or led any man to form
     a thought so injurious and insulting. But, my Lord, there's
     more here than all that--a great deal more. One could have
     thought the defender would have gratified his spite to the
     full by comparing the Beetle to a common Louse--an animal
     sufficiently vile and abominable for the purpose of
     defamation--[Shut that door there]--but he adds the epithet
     Egyptian, and I know well what he means by that epithet. He
     means, my Lord, a Louse that has been fattened on the head of
     a Gipsy or Tinker, undisturbed by the comb or nail, and
     unmolested in the enjoyment of its native filth. He means a
     Louse grown to its full size, ten times larger and ten times
     more abominable than those with which your Lordships and I
     are familiar. The petitioner asks redress for the injury so
     atrocious and so aggravated; and, as far as my voice goes, he
     shall not ask it in vain.

     "LORD CRAIG.--I am of the opinion last delivered. It appears
     to me to be slanderous and calumnious to compare a Diamond
     Beetle to the filthy and mischievous animal libelled. By an
     Egyptian Louse I understand one which has been formed on the
     head of a native Egyptian--a race of men who, after
     degenerating for many centuries, have sunk at last into the
     abyss of depravity, in consequence of having been subjugated
     for a time by the French. I do not find that Turgot, or
     Condorcet, or the rest of the economists, ever reckoned the
     combing of the head a species of productive labour; and I
     conclude, therefore, that wherever French principles have
     been propagated, Lice grow to an immoderate size,
     especially in a warm climate like that of Egypt. I shall only
     add, that we ought to be sensible of the blessings we enjoy
     under a free and happy Constitution, where Lice and men live
     under the restraint of equal laws the only equality that can
     exist in a well-regulated state.

     "LORD POLKEMMET.--It should be observed, my Lord, that what
     is called a Beetle is a reptile very well known in this
     country. I have seen mony are o' them in Drumshorlin Muir; it
     is a little black beastie, about the size of my thoom-nail.
     The country-folks ca' them Clocks; and I believe they ca'
     them also Maggy-wi'-the-mony-feet; but they are not the least
     like any Louse that ever I saw; so that, in my opinion,
     though the defender may have made a blunder through
     ignorance, in comparing them, there does not seem to have
     been any animus injuriandi; therefore I am for refusing the
     petition, my Lords.

     "LORD BALMUTO.--'Am[48] for refusing the petition. There's
     more Lice than Beetles in Fife. They ca' them Clocks there.
     What they ca' a Beetle is a thing as lang as my arm; thick at
     one end and sma' at the other. I thought, when I read the
     petition, that the Beetle or Bittle had been the thing that
     the women have when they are washing towels or napery
     with--things for dadding them with; and I see the petitioner
     is a jeweller till his trade; and I thought he had are o'
     thae Beetles, and set it all round with diamonds; and I
     thought it a foolish and extravagant idea; and I saw no
     resemblance it could have to a Louse. But I find I was
     mistaken, my Lord; and I find it only a Beetle-clock the
     petitioner has; but my opinion's the same as it was before. I
     say, my Lords, 'am for refusing the petition, I say--

     "LORD WOODHOUSELEE.--There is a case abridged in the third
     volume of the Dictionary of Decisions, Chalmers v.
     Douglas, in which it was found that veritas convicii
     excusat, which may be rendered not literally, but in a free
     and spirited manner, according to the most approved
     principles of translation, 'the truth of calumny affords a
     relevant defence.' If, therefore, it be the law of Scotland
     (which I am clearly of opinion it is) that the truth of the
     calumny affords a relevant defence, and if it be likewise
     true that the Diamond Beetle is really an Egyptian Louse, I
     am inclined to conclude (though certainly the case is
     attended with difficulty) that the defender ought to be
     assoilzied.--Refuse.

     "LORD JUSTICE-CLERK (RAE).--I am very well acquainted with
     the defender in this action, and have respect for him, and
     esteem him likewise. I know him to be a skilful and expert
     surgeon, and also a good man; and I would do a great deal to
     serve him or to be of use to him, if I had it in my power to
     do so. But I think on this occasion he has spoken rashly, and
     I fear foolishly and improperly. I hope he had no bad
     intention--I am sure he had not. But the petitioner (for whom
     I have likewise a great respect, because I knew his father,
     who was a very respectable baker in Edinburgh, and supplied
     my family with bread, and very good bread it was, and for
     which his accounts were regularly discharged), it seems, has
     a Clock or a Beetle, I think it is called a Diamond Beetle,
     which he is very fond of, and has a fancy for, and the
     defender has compared it to a Louse, or a Bug, or a Flea, or
     a worse thing of that kind, with a view to render it
     despicable or ridiculous, and the petitioner so likewise, as
     the proprietor or owner thereof. It is said that this is a
     Louse in fact, and that the veritas convicii excusat; and
     mention is made of a decision in the case of Chalmers v.
     Douglas. I have always had a great veneration for the
     decisions of your Lordships; and I am sure will always
     continue to have while I sit here; but that case was
     determined by a very small majority, and I have heard your
     Lordships mention it on various occasions, and you have
     always desiderated the propriety of it, and I think have
     departed from it in some instances. I remember the
     circumstances of the case well:--Helen Chalmers lived in
     Musselburgh, and the defender, Mrs. Douglas, lived in
     Fisherrow; and at that time there was much intercourse
     between the genteel inhabitants of Fisherrow, and
     Musselburgh, and Inveresk, and likewise Newbigging; and there
     were balls, or dances, or assemblies every fortnight, or
     oftener, and also sometimes I believe every week; and there
     were card-parties, assemblies once a fortnight, or oftener;
     and the young people danced there also, and others played at
     cards, and there were various refreshments, such as tea and
     coffee, and butter and bread, and I believe, but I am not
     sure, porter and negus, and likewise small beer. And it was
     at one of these assemblies that Mrs. Douglas called Mrs.
     Chalmers very improper names. And Mrs. Chalmers brought an
     action of defamation before the Commissaries, and it came by
     advocation into this Court, and your Lordships allowed a
     proof of the veritas convicii, and it lasted a very long
     time, and in the end answered no good purpose even to the
     defender herself, while it did much hurt to the pursuer's
     character. I am therefore for REFUSING such a proof in this
     case, and I think the petitioner in this case and his Beetle
     have been slandered, and the petition ought to be seen.

     "LORD METHVEN.--If I understand this--a--a--a--interlocutor,
     it is not said that the--a--a--a--a--Egyptian Lice are
     Beetles, but that they may be, or--a--a--a--a--resemble
     Beetles. I am therefore for sending the process to the
     Ordinary to ascertain the fact, as I think it depends upon
     that whether there be--a--a--a--a--convicium or not. I
     think also the petitioner should be ordained
     to--a--a--a--produce his Beetle, and the defender an Egyptian
     Louse or Pediculus, and if he has not one, that he should
     take a diligence--a--a--a--against havers to recover Lice of
     various kinds; and these may be remitted to Dr. Monro, or Mr.
     Playfair, or to some other naturalist, to report upon
     the subject.

     "Agreed to."

     This is clearly a Reminiscence of a bygone state of matters
     in the Court of Session. I think every reader in our day, of
     the once famous Beetle case, will come to the conclusion
     that, making all due allowance for the humorous embellishment
     of the description, and even for some exaggeration of
     caricature, it describes what was once a real state of
     matters, which, he will be sure, is real no more. The day of
     Judges of the Balmuto-Hermand-Polkemmet class has passed
     away, and is become a Scottish Reminiscence. Having thus
     brought before my readers some Reminiscences of past times
     from the Courts of Justice, let me advert to one which
     belongs to, or was supposed to belong to, past days of our
     Scottish universities. It is now a matter of tradition. But
     an idea prevailed, whether correctly or incorrectly, some
     eighty or a hundred years ago, that at northern colleges
     degrees were regularly sold, and those who could pay the
     price obtained them, without reference to the merits or
     attainments of those on whom they were conferred. We have
     heard of divers jokes being passed on those who were supposed
     to have received such academical honours, as well as on those
     who had given them. It is said Dr Samuel Johnson joined in
     this sarcastic humour. But his prejudices both against
     Scotland and Scottish literature were well known. Colman, in
     his amusing play of the "Heir at Law," makes his Dr. Pangloss
     ludicrously describe his receiving an LL.D. degree, on the
     grounds of his own celebrity (as he had never seen the
     college), and his paying the heads one pound fifteen
     shillings and threepence three farthings as a handsome
     compliment to them on receiving his diploma. Colman certainly
     had studied at a northern university. But he might have gone
     into the idea in fun. However this may be, an anecdote is
     current in the east of Scotland, which is illustrative of
     this real or supposed state of matters, to which we may
     indeed apply the Italian phrase that if "non vero" it is "ben
     trovato." The story is this:--An East Lothian minister,
     accompanied by his man, who acted as betheral of his parish,
     went over to a northern university to purchase his degree,
     and on their return home he gave strict charge to his man,
     that as now he was invested with academical honour, he was to
     be sure to say, if any one asked for the minister, "O yes,
     the Doctor is at home, or the Doctor is in the study, or the
     Doctor is out, as the case might be." The man at once
     acquiesced in the propriety of this observance on account of
     his master's newly-acquired dignity. But he quietly added,
     "Ay, ay, minister; an' if ony are speirs for me, the servants
     maun be sure to say, Oh, the Doctor's in the stable, or the
     Doctor's in the kitchen, or the Doctor's in the garden or the
     field." "What do you mean, Dauvid?" exclaimed his astonished
     master; "what can you have to do with Doctor?" "Weel, ye
     see, sir," said David, looking very knowing, "when ye got
     your degree, I thought that as I had saved a little money, I
     couldna lay it out better, as being betheral of the church,
     than tak out a degree to mysell." The story bears upon the
     practice, whether a real or a supposed one; and we may fairly
     say that under such principals as Shairp, Tulloch, Campbell,
     Barclay, who now adorn the Scottish universities, we have a
     guarantee that such reports must continue to be Reminiscence
     and traditional only.

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Bear.

[43] Rev. R. Scott of Cranwell.

[44] I have derived some information from a curious book, "Kay's Portraits," 2 vols. The work
is scarcely known in England, and is becoming rare in Scotland. "Nothing can be more valuable
in the way of engraved portraits than these representations of the distinguished men who adorned
Edinburgh in the latter part of the eighteenth century."--Chambers.

[45] Origin and Progress of Language.

[46] Douglas' Peerage, vol. i. p. 22.

[47] The version I have given of this amusing burlesque was revised by the late Mr. Pagan,
Cupar-Fife, and corrected from his own manuscript copy, which he had procured from authentic
sources about forty years ago.

[48] His Lordship usually pronounced I am--Aum.

CHAPTER THE SIXTH.

ON HUMOUR PROCEEDING FROM SCOTTISH EXPRESSIONS, INCLUDING SCOTTISH PROVERBS.

We come next to Reminiscences which are chiefly connected with peculiarities of our Scottish
LANGUAGE, whether contained in words or in expressions. I am quite aware that the difference
between the anecdotes belonging to this division and to the last division termed "Wit and Humour"
is very indistinct, and must, in fact, in many cases, be quite arbitrary. Much of what we enjoy
most in Scottish stories is not on account of wit properly so called, in the speaker, but I
should say rather from the odd and unexpected view which is taken of some matter, or from the
quaint and original turn of the expression made use of, or from the simple and matter-of-fact
reference made to circumstances which are unusual. I shall not, therefore, be careful to preserve
any strict line of separation between this division and the next. Each is conversant with what
is amusing and with what is Scotch. What we have now chiefly to illustrate by suitable anecdotes
is peculiarities of Scottish language--its various humorous turns and odd expressions.

We have now to consider stories where words and expressions, which are peculiarly Scotch, impart
the humour and the point. Sometimes they are altogether incapable of being rendered in other
language. As, for example, a parishioner in an Ayrshire village, meeting his pastor, who had
just returned after a considerable absence on account of ill health, congratulated him on his
convalescence, and added, anticipatory of the pleasure he would have in hearing him again,
"I'm unco yuckie to hear a blaud o' your gab." This is an untranslatable form of saying how
glad he should be to hear his minister's voice again speaking to him the words of salvation
and of peace from the pulpit.

The two following are good examples of that Scottish style of expression which has its own
character. They are kindly sent by Sir Archibald Dunbar. The first illustrates Scottish acute
discernment. A certain titled lady, well known around her country town for her long-continued
and extensive charities, which are not withheld from those who least deserve them, had a few
years since, by the unexpected death of her brother and of his only son, become possessor of
a fine estate. The news soon spread in the neighbourhood, and a group of old women were overheard
in the streets of Elgin discussing the fact. One of them said, "Ay, she may prosper, for she
has baith the prayers of the good and of the bad."

The second anecdote is a delightful illustration of Mrs. Hamilton's Cottagers of Glenburnie,
and of the old-fashioned Scottish pride in the midden. About twenty years ago, under the apprehension
of cholera, committees of the most influential inhabitants of the county of Moray were formed
to enforce a more complete cleansing of its towns and villages, and to induce the cottagers
to remove their dunghills or dung-pits from too close a proximity to their doors or windows.
One determined woman, on the outskirts of the town of Forres, no doubt with her future potato
crop in view, met the M.P. who headed one of these committees, thus, "Noo, Major, ye may tak
our lives, but ye'll no tak our middens."

The truth is, many of the peculiarities which marked Scottish society departed with the disuse
of the Scottish dialect in the upper ranks. I recollect a familiar example of this, which I
may well term a Reminiscence. At a party assembled in a county house, the Earl of Elgin (grandfather
of the present Earl) came up to the tea-table, where Mrs. Forbes of Medwyn, one of the finest
examples of the past Scottish lady, was sitting, evidently much engaged with her occupation.
"You are fond of your tea, Mrs. Forbes?" The reply was quite a characteristic one, and a pure
reminiscence of such a place and such interlocutors; "'Deed, my Lord, I wadna gie my tea for
your yerldom."

My aunt, the late Lady Burnett of Leys, was one of the class of Scottish ladies I have referred
to;--thoroughly a good woman and a gentlewoman, but in dialect quite Scottish. For example,
being shocked at the sharp Aberdonian pronunciation adopted by her children, instead of the
broader Forfarshire model in which she had been brought up, she thus adverted to their manner
of calling the floor of the room where they were playing: "What gars ye ca' it 'fleer?' canna
ye ca' it 'flure?' But I needna speak; Sir Robert winna let me correc' your language."

In respect of language, no doubt, a very important change has taken place in Scotland during
the last seventy years, and which, I believe, influences, in a greater degree than many persons
would imagine, the turn of thought and general modes and aspects of society. In losing the
old racy Scottish tongue, it seems as if much originality of character was lost. I suppose
at one time the two countries of England and Scotland were considered as almost speaking different
languages, and I suppose also, that from the period of the union of the crowns the language
has been assimilating. We see the process of assimilation going on, and ere long amongst persons
of education and birth very little difference will be perceptible. With regard to that class,
a great change has taken place in my own time. I recollect old Scottish ladies and gentlemen
who really spoke Scotch. It was not, mark me, speaking English with an accent. No; it was downright
Scotch. Every tone and every syllable was Scotch. For example, I recollect old Miss Erskine
of Dun, a fine specimen of a real lady, and daughter of an ancient Scottish house, so speaking.
Many people now would not understand her. She was always the lady, notwithstanding her dialect,
and to none could the epithet vulgar be less appropriately applied. I speak of more than forty
years ago, and yet I recollect her accost to me as well as if it were yesterday: "I didna ken
ye were i' the toun." Taking word and accents together, an address how totally unlike what
we now meet with in society. Some of the old Scottish words which we can remember are charming;
but how strange they would sound to the ears of the present generation! Fancy that in walking
from church, and discussing the sermon, a lady of rank should now express her opinion of it
by the description of its being, "but a hummelcorn discourse." Many living persons can remember
Angus old ladies who would say to their nieces and daughters, "Whatna hummeldoddie o' a mutch
hae ye gotten?" meaning a flat and low-crowned cap. In speaking of the dryness of the soil
on a road in Lanarkshire, a farmer said, "It stoors in an oor[49]." How would this be as tersely
translated into English? The late Duchess of Gordon sat at dinner next an English gentleman
who was carving, and who made it a boast that he was thoroughly master of the Scottish language.
Her Grace turned to him and said, "Rax me a spaul o' that bubbly jock[50]." The unfortunate
man was completely nonplussed. A Scottish gentleman was entertaining at his house an English
cousin who professed himself as rather knowing in the language of the north side of the Tweed.
He asked him what he supposed to be the meaning of the expression, "ripin the ribs[51]." To
which he readily answered, "Oh, it describes a very fat man." I profess myself an out-and-out
Scotchman. I have strong national partialities--call them if you will national prejudices.
I cherish a great love of old Scottish language. Some of our pure Scottish ballad poetry is
unsurpassed in any language for grace and pathos. How expressive, how beautiful are its phrases!
You can't translate them. Take an example of power in a Scottish expression, to describe with
tenderness and feeling what is in human life. Take one of our most familiar phrases; as thus:--We
meet an old friend, we talk over bygone days, and remember many who were dear to us both, once
bright, and young, and gay, of whom some remain, honoured, prosperous, and happy--of whom some
are under a cloud of misfortune or disgrace--some are broken in health and spirits--some sunk
into the grave; we recall old familiar places--old companions, pleasures, and pursuits; as
Scotchmen our hearts are touched with these remembrances of

     AULD LANG SYNE.

Match me the phrase in English. You can't translate it. The fitness and the beauty lie in the
felicity of the language. Like many happy expressions, it is not transferable into another
tongue, just like the "simplex munditiis" of Horace, which describes the natural grace of female
elegance, or the [Greek: achaexithmon gelasma] of Æschylus, which describes the bright sparkling
of the ocean in the sun.

I think the power of Scottish dialect was happily exemplified by the late Dr. Adam, rector
of the High School of Edinburgh, in his translation of the Horatian expression "desipere in
loco," which he turned by the Scotch phrase "Weel-timed daffin';" a translation, however, which
no one but a Scotchman could appreciate. The following humorous Scottish translation of an
old Latin aphorism has been assigned to the late Dr. Hill of St. Andrews: "Qui bene cepit dimidium
facti fecit" the witty Principal expressed in Scotch, "Weel saipet (well soaped) is half shaven."

What mere English word could have expressed a distinction so well in such a case as the following?
I heard once a lady in Edinburgh objecting to a preacher that she did not understand him. Another
lady, his great admirer, insinuated that probably he was too "deep" for her to follow. But
her ready answer was, "Na, na, he's no just deep, but he's drumly[52]"

We have a testimony to the value of our Scottish language from a late illustrious Chancellor
of the University of Edinburgh, the force and authority of which no one will be disposed to
question. Lord Brougham, in speaking of improvements upon the English language, makes these
striking remarks:--

"The pure and classical language of Scotland must on no account be regarded as a provincial
dialect, any more than French was so regarded in the reign of Henry V., or Italian in that
of the first Napoleon, or Greek under the Roman Empire. Nor is it to be in any manner of way
considered as a corruption of the Saxon; on the contrary, it contains much of the old and genuine
Saxon, with an intermixture from the Northern nations, as Danes and Norse, and some, though
a small portion, from the Celtic. But in whatever way composed, or from whatever sources arising,
it is a national language, used by the whole people in their early years, by many learned and
gifted persons throughout life, and in which are written the laws of the Scotch, their judicial
proceedings, their ancient history; above all, their poetry.

"There can be no doubt that the English language would greatly gain by being enriched with
a number both of words and of phrases, or turns of expression, now peculiar to the Scotch.
It was by such a process that the Greek became the first of tongues, as well written as spoken....

"Would it not afford means of enriching and improving the English language, if full and accurate
glossaries of improved Scotch words and phrases--those successfully used by the best writers,
both in prose and verse--were given, with distinct explanation and reference to authorities?
This has been done in France and other countries, where some dictionaries accompany the English,
in some cases with Scotch synonyms, in others with varieties of expression."--Installation
Address, p. 63.

The Scotch, as a people, from their more guarded and composed method of speaking, are not so
liable to fall into that figure of speech for which our Irish neighbours are celebrated--usually
called the Bull; some specimens, however, of that confusion of thought, very like a bull, have
been recorded of Scottish interlocutors.

Of this the two following examples have been sent to me by a kind friend.

It is related of a Scottish judge (who has supplied several anecdotes of Scottish stories),
that on going to consult a dentist, who, as is usual, placed him in the professional chair,
and told his lordship that he must let him put his fingers into his mouth, he exclaimed, "Na!
na! ye'll aiblins bite me."

A Scottish laird, singularly enough the grandson of the learned judge mentioned above, when
going his round to canvass for the county, at the time when the electors were chiefly confined
to resident proprietors, was asked at one house where he called if he would not take some refreshment,
hesitated, and said, "I doubt it's treating, and may be ca'd bribery."

But a still more amusing specimen of this figure of speech was supplied by an honest Highlander,
in the days of sedan chairs. For the benefit of my young readers I may describe the sedan chair
as a comfortable little carriage fixed to two poles, and carried by two men, one behind and
one before. A dowager lady of quality had gone out to dinner in one of these "leathern conveniences,"
and whilst she herself enjoyed the hospitality of the mansion up-stairs, her bearers were profusely
entertained downstairs, and partook of the abundant refreshment offered to them. When my lady
was to return, and had taken her place in the sedan, her bearers raised the chair, but she
found no progress was made--she felt herself sway first to one side, then to the other, and
soon came bump upon the ground, when Donald behind was heard shouting to Donald before (for
the bearers of sedans were always Highlanders), "Let her down, Donald, man, for she's drunk."

I cannot help thinking that a change of national language involves to some extent change of
national character. Numerous examples of great power in Scottish Phraseology, to express the
picturesque, the feeling, the wise, and the humorous, might be taken from the works of Robert
Burns, Ferguson, or Allan Ramsay, and which lose their charms altogether when unscottified.
The speaker certainly seems to take a strength and character from his words. We must now look
for specimens of this racy and expressive tongue in the more retired parts of the country.
It is no longer to be found in high places. It has disappeared from the social circles of our
cities. I cannot, however, omit calling my reader's attention to a charming specimen of Scottish
prose and of Scottish humour of our own day, contained in a little book, entitled "Mystifications"
by Clementina Stirling Graham. The scenes described in that volume are matters of pleasing
reminiscence, and to some of us who still remain "will recall that blithe and winning face,
sagacious and sincere, that kindly, cheery voice, that rich and quiet laugh, that mingled sense
and sensibility, which met, and still to our happiness meet, in her who, with all her gifts,
never gratified her consciousness of these powers so as to give pain to any human being[53]."
These words, written more than ten years ago, might have been penned yesterday; and those who,
like myself, have had the privilege of seeing the authoress presiding in her beautiful mansion
of Duntrune, will not soon forget how happy, how gracious, and how young, old age may be.

     "No fears to beat away--no strife to heal;
     The past unsighed for, and the future sure."

In my early days the intercourse with the peasantry of Forfarshire, Kincardineshire, and especially
Deeside, was most amusing--not that the things said were so much out of the common, as that
the language in which they were conveyed was picturesque, and odd, and taking. And certainly
it does appear to me that as the language grows more uniform and conventional, less marked
and peculiar in its dialect and expressions, so does the character of those who speak it become
so. I have a rich sample of Mid-Lothian Scotch from a young friend in the country, who describes
the conversation of an old woman on the property as amusing her by such specimens of genuine
Scottish raciness and humour. On one occasion, for instance, the young lady had told her humble
friend that she was going to Ireland, and would have to undergo a sea voyage. "Weel, noo, ye
dinna mean that! Ance I thocht to gang across to tither side o' the Queensferry wi' some ither
folks to a fair, ye ken; but juist whene'er I pat my fit in the boat, the boat gae wallop,
and my heart gae a loup, and I thocht I'd gang oot o' my judgment athegither; so says I, Na,
na, ye gang awa by yoursells to tither side, and I'll bide here till sic times as ye come awa
back." When we hear our Scottish language at home, and spoken by our own countrymen, we are
not so much struck with any remarkable effects; but it takes a far more impressive character
when heard amongst those who speak a different tongue, and when encountered in other lands.
I recollect hearing the late Sir Robert Liston expressing this feeling in his own case. When
our ambassador at Constantinople, some Scotchmen had been recommended to him for a purpose
of private or of government business; and Sir Robert was always ready to do a kind thing for
a countryman. He found them out in a barber's shop, waiting for being shaved in turn. One came
in rather late, and seeing he had scarcely room at the end of the seat, addressed his countryman,
"Neebour, wad ye sit a bit wast?" What strong associations must have been called up, by hearing
in an eastern land such an expression in Scottish tones.

We may observe here, that marking the course any person is to take, or the direction in which
any object is to be met with, by the points of the compass, was a prevailing practice amongst
the older Scottish race. There could hardly be a more ludicrous application of the test, than
was furnished by an honest Highlander in describing the direction which his medicine would
not take. Jean Gumming of Altyre, who, in common with her three sisters, was a true soeur de
charité, was one day taking her rounds as usual, visiting the poor sick, among whom there was
a certain Donald MacQueen, who had been some time confined to his bed. Miss Gumming, after
asking him how he felt, and finding that he was "no better," of course inquired if he had taken
the medicine which she had sent him; "Troth no, me lady," he replied. "But why not, Donald?"
she answered; "it was very wrong; how can you expect to get better if you do not help yourself
with the remedies which heaven provides for you?" "Vright or Vrang," said Donald, "it wadna
gang wast in spite o' me." In all the north country, it is always said, "I'm ganging east or
west," etc., and it happened that Donald on his sick bed was lying east and west, his feet
pointing to the latter direction, hence his reply to indicate that he could not swallow the
medicine!

We may fancy the amusement of the officers of a regiment in the West Indies, at the innocent
remark of a young lad who had just joined from Scotland. On meeting at dinner, his salutation
to his Colonel was, "Anither het day, Cornal," as if "het days" were in Barbadoes few and far
between, as they were in his dear old stormy cloudy Scotland. Or take the case of a Scottish
saying, which indicated at once the dialect and the economical habits of a hardy and struggling
race. A young Scotchman, who had been some time in London, met his friend recently come up
from the north to pursue his fortune in the great metropolis. On discussing matters connected
with their new life in London, the more experienced visitor remarked upon the greater expenses
there than in the retired Scottish town which they had left. "Ay," said the other, sighing
over the reflection, "when ye get cheenge for a saxpence here, it's soon slippit awa'." I recollect
a story of my father's which illustrates the force of dialect, although confined to the inflections
of a single monosyllable. On riding home one evening, he passed a cottage or small farm-house,
where there was a considerable assemblage of people, and an evident incipient merry-making
for some festive occasion. On asking one of the lasses standing about, what it was, she answered,
"Ou, it's just a wedding o' Jock Thamson and Janet Frazer." To the question, "Is the bride
rich?" there was a plain quiet "Na." "Is she young?" a more emphatic and decided "Naa!" but
to the query, "Is she bonny?" a most elaborate and prolonged shout of "Naaa!"

It has been said that the Scottish dialect is peculiarly powerful in its use of vowels, and
the following dialogue between a shopman and a customer has been given as a specimen. The conversation
relates to a plaid hanging at the shop door--

Cus. (inquiring the material), Oo? (wool?)

Shop. Ay, oo (yes, of wool).

Cus. A' oo? (all wool?)

Shop. Ay, a' oo (yes, all wool).

Cus. A' ae oo? (all same wool?)

Shop. Ay a' ae oo (yes, all same wool).

An amusing anecdote of a pithy and jocular reply, comprised in one syllable, is recorded of
an eccentric legal Scottish functionary of the last century. An advocate, of whose professional
qualifications he had formed rather a low estimate, was complaining to him of being passed
over in a recent appointment to the bench, and expressed his sense of the injustice with which
he had been treated. He was very indignant at his claims and merit being overlooked in their
not choosing him for the new judge, adding with much acrimony, "And I can tell you they might
have got a 'waur[54].'" To which, as if merely coming over the complainant's language again,
the answer was a grave "Whaur[55]?" The merit of the impertinence was, that it sounded as if
it were merely a repetition of his friend's last words, waur and whaur. It was as if "echo
answered whaur?" As I have said, the oddity and acuteness of the speaker arose from the manner
of expression, not from the thing said. In fact, the same thing said in plain English would
be mere commonplace. I recollect being much amused with a dialogue between a late excellent
relative of mine and his man, the chief manager of a farm which he had just taken, and, I suspect
in a good measure manager of the farmer as well. At any rate he committed to this acute overseer
all the practical details; and on the present occasion had sent him to market to dispose of
a cow and a pony, a simple enough transaction, and with a simple enough result. The cow was,
brought back, the pony was sold. But the man's description of it forms the point. "Well, John,
have you sold the cow?" "Na, but I grippit a chiel for the powny!" "Grippit" was here most
expressive. Indeed, this word has a significance hardly expressed by any English one, and used
to be very prevalent to indicate keen and forcible tenacity of possession; thus a character
noted for avarice or sharp looking to self-interest was termed "grippy." In mechanical contrivances,
anything taking a close adherence was called having a gude grip. I recollect in boyish days,
when on Deeside taking wasp-nests, an old man looking on was sharply stung by one, and his
description was, "Ane o' them's grippit me fine." The following had an indescribable piquancy,
which arose from the Scotticism of the terms and the manners. Many years ago, when accompanying
a shooting party on the Grampians, not with a gun like the rest, but with a botanical box for
collecting specimens of mountain plants, the party had got very hot, and very tired, and very
cross. On the way home, whilst sitting down to rest, a gamekeeper sort of attendant, and a
character in his way, said, "I wish I was in the dining-room of Fasque." Our good cousin the
Rev. Mr. Wilson, minister of Farnel, who liked well a quiet shot at the grouse, rather testily
replied, "Ye'd soon be kickit out o' that;" to which the other replied, not at all daunted,
"Weel, weel, then I wadna be far frae the kitchen." A quaint and characteristic reply I recollect
from another farm-servant. My eldest brother had just been constructing a piece of machinery
which was driven by a stream of water running through the home farmyard. There was a thrashing
machine, a winnowing machine, and circular saw for splitting trees into paling, and other contrivances
of a like kind. Observing an old man, who had long been about the place, looking very attentively
at all that was going on, he said, "Wonderful things people can do now, Robby!" "Ay," said
Robby; "indeed, Sir Alexander, I'm thinking gin Solomon were alive noo he'd be thocht naething o'!"

The two following derive their force entirely from the Scottish turn of the expressions. Translated
into English, they would lose all point--at least, much of the point which they now have:--

At the sale of an antiquarian gentleman's effects in Roxburghshire, which Sir Walter Scott
happened to attend, there was one little article, a Roman patina, which occasioned a good deal
of competition, and was eventually knocked down to the distinguished baronet at a high price.
Sir Walter was excessively amused during the time of bidding to observe how much it excited
the astonishment of an old woman, who had evidently come there to buy culinary utensils on
a more economical principle. "If the parritch-pan," she at last burst out--"If the parritch-pan
gangs at that, what will the kail-pat gang for?"

An ancestor of Sir Walter Scott joined the Stuart Prince in 1715, and, with his brother, was
engaged in that unfortunate adventure which ended in a skirmish and captivity at Preston. It
was the fashion of those times for all persons of the rank of gentlemen to wear scarlet waistcoats.
A ball had struck one of the brothers, and carried part of this dress into his body, and in
this condition he was taken prisoner with a number of his companions, and stripped, as was
too often the practice in those remorseless wars. Thus wounded, and nearly naked, having only
a shirt on, and an old sack about him, the ancestor of the great poet was sitting, along with
his brother and a hundred and fifty unfortunate gentlemen, in a granary at Preston. The wounded
man fell sick, as the story goes, and vomited the scarlet cloth which the ball had passed into
the wound. "O man, Wattie," cried his brother, "if you have a wardrobe in your wame, I wish
you would vomit me a pair o' breeks." But, after all, it was amongst the old ladies that the
great abundance of choice pungent Scottish expressions, such as you certainly do not meet with
in these days, was to be sought. In their position of society, education either in England,
or education conducted by English teachers, has so spread in Scottish families, and intercourse
with the south has been so increased, that all these colloquial peculiarities are fast disappearing.
Some of the ladies of this older school felt some indignation at the change which they lived
to see was fast going on. One of them being asked if an individual whom she had lately seen
was "Scotch," answered with some bitterness, "I canna say; ye a' speak sae genteel now that
I dinna ken wha's Scotch." It was not uncommon to find, in young persons, examples, some years
ago, of an attachment to the Scottish dialect, like that of the old lady. In the life of P.
Tytler, lately published, there is an account of his first return to Scotland from a school
in England. His family were delighted with his appearance, manners, and general improvement;
but a sister did not share this pleasure unmixed, for being found in tears, and the remark
being made, "Is he not charming?" her reply was, in great distress, "Oh yes, but he speaks
English!"

The class of old Scottish ladies, marked by so many peculiarities, generally lived in provincial
towns, and never dreamt of going from home. Many had never been in London, or had even crossed
the Tweed. But as Lord Cockburn's experience goes back further than mine, and as he had special
opportunities of being acquainted with their characteristic peculiarities, I will quote his
animated description at page 57 of his Memorials. "There was a singular race of old Scotch
ladies. They were a delightful set--strong-headed, warm-hearted, and high-spirited--merry even
in solitude; very resolute; indifferent about the modes and habits of the modern world, and
adhering to their own ways, so as to stand out like primitive rocks above ordinary society.
Their prominent qualities of sense, humour, affection, and spirit, were embodied in curious
outsides, for they all dressed, and spoke, and did exactly as they chose. Their language, like
their habits, entirely Scotch, but without any other vulgarity than what perfect naturalness
is sometimes mistaken for[56]."

This is a masterly description of a race now all but passed away. I have known several of them
in my early days; and amongst them we must look for the racy Scottish peculiarities of diction
and of expression which, with them, are also nearly gone. Lord Cockburn has given some illustrations
of these peculiarities; and I have heard others, especially connected with Jacobite partialities,
of which I say nothing, as they are in fact rather strong for such a work as this. One, however,
I heard lately as coming from a Forfarshire old lady of this class, which bears upon the point
of "resolute" determination referred to in the learned judge's description. She had been very
positive in the disclaiming of some assertion which had been attributed to her, and on being
asked if she had not written it, or something very like it, she replied, "Na, na; I never write
onything of consequence--I may deny what I say, but I canna deny what I write."

Mrs. Baird of Newbyth, the mother of our distinguished countryman the late General Sir David
Baird, was always spoken of as a grand specimen of the class. When the news arrived from India
of the gallant but unfortunate action of '84 against Hyder Ali, in which her son, then Captain
Baird, was engaged, it was stated that he and other officers had been taken prisoners and chained
together two and two. The friends were careful in breaking such sad intelligence to the mother
of Captain Baird. When, however, she was made fully to understand the position of her son and
his gallant companions, disdaining all weak and useless expressions of her own grief, and knowing
well the restless and athletic habits of her son, all she said was, "Lord pity the chiel that's
chained to our Davie!"

It is only due to the memory of "our Davie," however, to add that the "chiel" to whom he was
chained, had, in writing home to his friends, borne the highest testimony to the kindness and
consideration of Captain Baird, which he exercised towards him in this uncomfortable alliance.
General Baird was a first-rate officer, and a fine noble character. He left home for active
service so soon (before he was fifteen) that his education had necessarily been very imperfect.
This deficiency he had always himself through life deeply regretted. A military friend, and
great admirer of Sir David, used jocularly to tell a story of him--that having finished the
despatch which must carry home the news of his great action, the capture of Seringapatam, as
he was preparing to sign it in great form, he deliberately took off his coat. "Why do you take
off your coat?" said his friend. To which the General quietly answered, "Oh, it's to turn the
muckle D in Dauvid."

The ladies of this class had certainly no affectation in speaking of those who came under their
displeasure, even when life and death were concerned. I had an anecdote illustrative of this
characteristic in a well-known old lady of the last century, Miss Johnstone of Westerhall.
She had been extremely indignant that, on the death of her brother, his widow had proposed
to sell off the old furniture of Westerhall. She was attached to it from old associations,
and considered the parting with it little short of sacrilege. The event was, however, arrested
by death, or, as she describes the result, "The furniture was a' to be roupit, and we couldna
persuade her. But before the sale cam on, in God's gude providence she just clinkit aff hersell."
Of this same Miss Johnstone another characteristic anecdote has been preserved in the family.
She came into possession of Hawkhill, near Edinburgh, and died there. When dying, a tremendous
storm of rain and thunder came on, so as to shake the house. In her own quaint eccentric spirit,
and with no thought of profane or light allusions, she looked up, and, listening to the storm,
quietly remarked, in reference to her departure, "Ech, sirs! what a nicht for me to be fleein'
through the air!" Of fine acute sarcasm I recollect hearing an expression from a modern sample
of the class, a charming character, but only to a certain degree answering to the description
of the older generation. Conversation turning, and with just indignation, on the infidel remarks
which had been heard from a certain individual, and on his irreverent treatment of Holy Scripture,
all that this lady condescended to say of him was, "Gey impudent of him, I think."

A recorded reply of old Lady Perth to a French gentleman is quaint and characteristic. They
had been discussing the respective merits of the cookery of each country. The Frenchman offended
the old Scottish peeress by some disparaging remarks on Scottish dishes, and by highly preferring
those of France. All she would answer was, "Weel, weel, some fowk like parritch and some like
paddocks[57]."

Of this older race--the ladies who were, aged, fifty years ago--no description could be given
in bolder or stronger outline than that which I have quoted from Lord Cockburn. I would pretend
to nothing more than giving a few further illustrative details from my own experience, which
may assist the representation by adding some practical realities to the picture.

Several of them whom I knew in my early days certainly answered to many of the terms made use
of by his lordship. Their language and expressions had a zest and peculiarity which are gone,
and which would not, I fear, do for modern life and times.

I have spoken of Miss Erskine of Dun, which is near Montrose. She, however, resided in Edinburgh.
But those I knew best had lived many years in the then retired society of a country town. Some
were my own relations; and in boyish days (for they had not generally much patience with boys)
were looked up to with considerable awe as very formidable personages. Their characters and
modes of expression in many respects remarkably corresponded with Lord Cockburn's idea of the
race. There was a dry Scottish humour which we fear their successors do not inherit. One of
these Montrose ladies, Miss Nelly Fullerton, had many anecdotes told of her quaint ways and
sayings. Walking in the street one day, slippery from frost, she fairly fell down. A young
officer with much politeness came forward and picked her up, earnestly asking her at the same
time, "I hope ma'am, you are no worse?" to which she very drily answered, looking at him very
steadily, "'Deed, sir, I'm just as little the better." A few days after, she met her military
supporter in a shop. He was a fine tall youth, upwards of six feet high, and by way of making
some grateful recognition for his late polite attention, she eyed him from head to foot, and
as she was of the opinion of the old Scotch lady who declared she "aye liked bonny fowk," she
viewed her young friend with much satisfaction, but which she only evinced by the quaint remark,
"Od, ye're a lang lad; God gie ye grace."

I had from a relative or intimate friend of two sisters of this school, well known about Glasgow,
an odd account of what it seems, from their own statement, had passed between them at a country
house, where they had attended a sale by auction. As the business of the day went on, a dozen
of silver spoons had to be disposed of; and before they were put up for competition, they were,
according to the usual custom, handed round for inspection to the company. When returned into
the hands of the auctioneer, he found only eleven. In great wrath, he ordered the door to be
shut, that no one might escape, and insisted on every one present being searched to discover
the delinquent. One of the sisters, in consternation, whispered to the other, "Esther, ye hae
nae gotten the spune?" to which she replied, "Na; but I hae gotten Mrs. Siddons in my pocket."
She had been struck by a miniature of the great actress, and had quietly pocketed it. The cautious
reply of the sister was, "Then just drop her, Esther." One of the sisterhood, a connection
of my own, had much of this dry Scottish humour. She had a lodging in the house of a respectable
grocer; and on her niece most innocently asking, "if she was not very fond of her landlord,"
in reference to the excellence of her apartments and the attention he paid to her comfort,
she demurred to the question on the score of its propriety, by replying, "Fond of my landlord!
that would be an unaccountable fondness."

An amusing account was given of an interview and conversation between this lady and the provost
of Montrose. She had demurred at paying some municipal tax with which she had been charged,
and the provost, anxious to prevent her getting into difficulty on the subject, kindly called
to convince her of the fairness of the claim, and the necessity of paying it. In his explanation
he referred back to his own bachelor days when a similar payment had been required from him.
"I assure you, ma'am," he said, "when I was in your situation I was called upon in a similar
way for this tax;" to which she replied, in quiet scorn, "In my situation! an' whan were ye
in my situation?--an' auld maid leevin' in a flat wi' an ae lass." But the complaints of such
imposts were urged in a very humorous manner by another Montrose old lady, Miss Helen Carnegy
of Craigo; she hated paying taxes, and always pretended to misunderstand their nature. One
day, receiving a notice of such payment signed by the provost (Thorn), she broke out: "I dinna
understand thae taxes; but I just think that when Mrs. Thorn wants a new gown, the provost
sends me a tax paper!" The good lady's naïve rejection of the idea that she could be in any
sense "fond of her landlord," already referred to, was somewhat in unison with a similar feeling
recorded to have been expressed by the late Mr. Wilson, the celebrated Scottish vocalist. He
was taking lessons from the late Mr. Finlay Dun, one of the most accomplished musicians of
the day. Mr. Dun had just returned from Italy, and, impressed with admiration of the deep pathos,
sentiment, and passion of the Italian school of music, he regretted to find in his pupil so
lovely a voice and so much talent losing much of its effect for want of feeling. Anxious, therefore,
to throw into his friend's performance something of the Italian expression, he proposed to
bring it out by this suggestion: "Now, Mr. Wilson, just suppose that I am your lady love, and
sing to me as you could imagine yourself doing were you desirous of impressing her with your
earnestness and affection." Poor Mr. Wilson hesitated, blushed, and, under doubt how far such
a personification even in his case was allowable, at last remonstrated, "Ay, Mr. Dun, ye forget
I'm a married man!" A case has been reported of a country girl, however, who thought it possible
there might be an excess in such scrupulous regard to appearances. On her marriage-day, the
youth to whom she was about to be united said to her in a triumphant tone, "Weel, Jenny, haven't
I been unco ceevil?" alluding to the fact that during their whole courtship he had never even
given her a kiss. Her quiet reply was, "Ou, ay, man; senselessly ceevil."

One of these Montrose ladies and a sister lived together; and in a very quiet way they were
in the habit of giving little dinner-parties, to which occasionally they invited their gentlemen
friends. However, gentlemen were not always to be had; and on one occasion, when such a difficulty
had occurred, they were talking over the matter with a friend. The one lady seemed to consider
such an acquisition almost essential to the having a dinner at all. The other, who did not
see the same necessity, quietly adding, "But, indeed, oor Jean thinks a man perfect salvation."

Very much of the same class of remarks was the following sly observation of one of the sisterhood.
At a well-known tea-table in a country town in Forfarshire, the events of the day, grave and
gay, had been fully discussed by the assembled sisterhood. The occasion was improved by an
elderly spinster, as follows:--"Weel, weel, sirs, these are solemn events--death and marriage--but
ye ken they're what we must a' come till." "Eh, Miss Jeany! ye have been lang spared," was
the arch reply of a younger member.

There was occasionally a pawky semi-sarcastic humour in the replies of some of the ladies we
speak of, that was quite irresistible, of which I have from a friend a good illustration in
an anecdote well known at the time. A late well-known member of the Scottish bar, when a youth,
was somewhat of a dandy, and, I suppose, somewhat short and sharp in his temper. He was going
to pay a visit in the country, and was making a great fuss about his preparing and putting
up his habiliments. His old aunt was much annoyed at all this bustle, and stopped him by the
somewhat contemptuous question, "Whar's this you're gaun, Bobby, that ye mak sic a grand wark
about yer claes?" The young man lost temper, and pettishly replied, "I'm going to the devil."
"'Deed, Robby, then," was the quiet answer, "ye needna be sae nice, he'll juist tak' ye as ye are."

Ladies of this class had a quiet mode of expressing themselves on very serious subjects, which
indicated their quaint power of description, rather than their want of feeling. Thus, of two
sisters, when one had died, it was supposed that she had injured herself by an imprudent indulgence
in strawberries and cream, of which she had partaken in the country. A friend was condoling
with the surviving sister, and, expressing her sorrow, had added, "I had hoped your sister
was to live many years." To which her relative replied--"Leeve! hoo could she leeve? she juist
felled[58] hersell at Craigo wi' straeberries and 'ream!" However, she spoke with the same
degree of coolness of her own decease. For when her friend was comforting her in illness, by
the hopes that she would, after winter, enjoy again some of their country spring butter, she
exclaimed, without the slightest idea of being guilty of any irreverence, "Spring butter! by
that time I shall be buttering in heaven." When really dying, and when friends were round her
bed she overheard one of them saying to another, "Her face has lost its colour; it grows like
a sheet of paper." The quaint spirit even then broke out in the remark, "Then I'm sure it maun
be broon paper." A very strong-minded lady of the class, and, in Lord Cockburn's language,
"indifferent about modes and habits[59]," had been asking from a lady the character of a cook
she was about to hire. The lady naturally entered a little upon her moral qualifications, and
described her as a very decent woman; the response to which was, "Oh, d--n her decency; can
she make good collops?"--an answer which would somewhat surprise a lady of Moray Place now,
if engaged in a similar discussion of a servant's merits.

The Rev. Dr. Cook of Haddington supplies an excellent anecdote, of which the point is in the
dry Scottish answer: An old lady of the Doctor's acquaintance, about seventy, sent for her
medical attendant to consult him about a sore throat, which had troubled her for some days.
Her medical man was ushered into her room, decked out with the now prevailing fashion, a mustache
and flowing beard. The old lady, after exchanging the usual civilities, described her complaint
to the worthy son of Æsculapius. "Well," says he, "do you know, Mrs. Macfarlane, I used to
be much affected with the very same kind of sore throat, but ever since I allowed my mustache
and beard to grow, I have never been troubled with it." "Aweel, aweel," said the old lady drily,
"that may be the case, but ye maun prescribe some other method for me to get quit o' the sair
throat; for ye ken, doctor, I canna adopt that cure."

Then how quaint the answer of old Mrs. Robison, widow of the eminent professor of natural philosophy,
and who entertained an inveterate dislike to everything which she thought savoured of cant.
She had invited a gentleman to dinner on a particular day, and he had accepted, with the reservation,
"If I am spared."--"Weel, weel," said Mrs. Robison; "if ye're deed, I'll no expect ye."

I had two grand-aunts living at Montrose at that time--two Miss Ramsays of Balmain. They were
somewhat of the severe class---Nelly especially, who was an object rather of awe than of affection.
She certainly had a very awful appearance to young apprehensions, from the strangeness of her
headgear. Ladies of this class Lord Cockburn has spoken of as "having their peculiarities embodied
in curious outsides, as they dressed, spoke, and did exactly as they chose." As a sample of
such "curious outside and dress," my good aunt used to go about the house with an immense pillow
strapped over her head--warm but formidable. These two maiden grand-aunts had invited their
niece to pay them a visit--an aunt of mine, who had made what they considered a very imprudent
marriage, and where considerable pecuniary privations were too likely to accompany the step
she had taken. The poor niece had to bear many a taunt directed against her improvident union,
as for example:--One day she had asked for a piece of tape for some work she had in hand as
a young wife expecting to become a mother. Miss Nelly said, with much point, "Ay, Kitty, ye
shall get a bit knittin' (i.e. a bit of tape). We hae a'thing; we're no married." It was this
lady who, by an inadvertent use of a term, showed what was passing in her mind in a way which
must have been quite transparent to the bystanders. At a supper which she was giving, she was
evidently much annoyed at the reckless and clumsy manner in which a gentleman was operating
upon a ham which was at table, cutting out great lumps, and distributing them to the company.
The lady said, in a very querulous tone, "Oh, Mr. Divot, will you help Mrs. So and So?"--divot
being a provincial term for a turf or sod cut out of the green, and the resemblance of it to
the pieces carved out by the gentleman evidently having taken possession of her imagination.
Mrs. Helen Carnegy of Craigo, already mentioned, was a thorough specimen of this class. She
lived in Montrose, and died in 1818, at the advanced age of ninety-one. She was a Jacobite,
and very aristocratic in her feelings, but on social terms with many burghers of Montrose,
or Munross as it was called. She preserved a very nice distinction of addresses, suited to
the different individuals in the town, according as she placed them in the scale of her consideration.
She liked a party at quadrille, and sent out her servant every morning to invite the ladies
required to make up the game, and her directions were graduated thus:--"Nelly, ye'll ging to
Lady Carnegy's, and mak my compliments, and ask the honour of her ladyship's company, and that
of the Miss Carnegys, to tea this evening; and if they canna come, ging to the Miss Mudies,
and ask the pleasure of their company; and if they canna come, ye may ging to Miss Hunter and
ask the favour of her company and if she canna come, ging to Lucky Spark and bid her come."

A great confusion existed in the minds of some of those old-fashioned ladies on the subject
of modern inventions and usages. A Montrose old lady protested against the use of steam-vessels,
as counteracting the decrees of Providence in going against wind and tide, vehemently asserting,
"I would hae naething to say to thae im-pious vessels." Another lady was equally discomposed
by the introduction of gas, asking, with much earnestness, "What's to become o' the puir whales'?"
deeming their interests materially affected by this superseding of their oil. A lady of this
class, who had long lived in country retirement, coming up to Edinburgh, was, after an absence
of many years, going along Princes Street about the time when the water-carts were introduced
for preventing the dust, and seeing one of them passing, rushed from off the pavement to the
driver, saying, "Man, ye're skailin' a' the water." Such being her ignorance of modern improvements.

There used to be a point and originality in expressions made use of in regard to common matters,
unlike what one finds now; for example: A country minister had been invited, with his wife,
to dine and spend the night at the house of one of his lairds. Their host was very proud of
one of the very large beds which had just come into fashion, and in the morning asked the lady
how she had slept in it. "Oh, vary well, sir; but, indeed, I thought I'd lost the minister
athegither."

Nothing, however, in my opinion, comes up to the originality and point of the Montrose old
maiden lady's most "exquisite reason" for not subscribing to the proposed fund for organising
a volunteer corps in that town. It was at the time of expected invasion at the beginning of
the century, and some of the town magistrates called upon her and solicited her subscription
to raise men for the service of the king--"Indeed," she answered right sturdily, "I'll dae
nae sic thing; I ne'er could raise a man for mysell, and I'm no ga'in to raise men for King
George."

Some curious stories are told of ladies of this class, as connected with the novelties and
excitement of railway travelling. Missing their luggage, or finding that something has gone
wrong about it, often causes very terrible distress, and might be amusing, were it not to the
sufferer so severe a calamity. I was much entertained with the earnestness of this feeling,
and the expression of it from an old Scotch lady whose box was not forthcoming at the station
where she was to stop. When urged to be patient, her indignant exclamation was--"I can bear
ony pairtings that may be ca'ed for in God's providence; but I canna stan' pairtin' frae my claes."

The following anecdote from the west exhibits a curious confusion of ideas arising from the
old-fashioned prejudice against Frenchmen and their language, which existed in the last generation.
During the long French war, two old ladies in Stranraer were going to the kirk; the one said
to the other, "Was it no a wonderfu' thing that the Breetish were aye victorious ower the French
in battle?" "Not a bit," said the other old lady; "dinna ye ken the Breetish aye say their
prayers before ga'in into battle?" The other replied, "But canna the French say their prayers
as weel?" The reply was most characteristic, "Hoot! jabbering bodies, wha could understan' them?"

Some of these ladies, as belonging to the old county families, had very high notions of their
own importance, and a great idea of their difference from the burgher families of the town.
I am assured of the truth of the following naïve specimen of such family pride:--One of the
olden maiden ladies of Montrose called one day on some ladies of one of the families in the
neighbourhood, and on being questioned as to the news of the town, said, "News! oh, Bailie----'s
eldest son is to be married." "And pray," was the reply, "and pray, Miss ----, an' fa' ever
heard o' a merchant i' the toon o' Montrose ha'in an eldest son?" The good lady thought that
any privilege of primogeniture belonged only to the family of laird.

It is a dangerous experiment to try passing off ungrounded claims upon characters of this description.
Many a clever sarcastic reply is on record from Scottish ladies, directed against those who
wished to impose upon them some false sentiment. I often think of the remark of the outspoken
ancient lady, who, when told by her pastor, of whose disinterestedness in his charge she was
not quite sure, that he "had a call from his Lord and Master to go," replied--"'Deed, sir,
the Lord micht hae ca'ed and ca'ed to ye lang eneuch to Ouchtertoul (a very small stipend),
and ye'd ne'er hae letten on that ye heard him."

At the beginning of this century, when the fear of invasion was rife, it was proposed to mount
a small battery at the water-mouth by subscription, and Miss Carnegy was waited on by a deputation
from the town-council. One of them having addressed her on the subject, she heard him with
some impatience, and when he had finished, she said, "Are ye ane o' the toon-cooncil." He replied,
"I have that honour, ma'am." To which she rejoined, "Ye may hae that profit, but honour ye
hae nane;" and then to the point, she added, "But I've been tell't that ae day's wark o' twa
or three men wad mount the cannon, and that it may be a' dune for twenty shillings; now there's
twa punds to ye." The councillor pocketed the money and withdrew. On one occasion, as she sat
in an easy chair, having assumed the habits and privileges of age, Mr. Mollison, the minister
of the Established Kirk, called on her to solicit for some charity. She did not like being
asked for money, and, from her Jacobite principles, she certainly did not respect the Presbyterian
Kirk. When he came in she made an inclination of the head, and he said, "Don't get up, madam."
She replied, "Get up! I wadna rise out o' my chair for King George himsell, let abee a whig
minister."

This was plain speaking enough, but there is something quite inimitable in the matter-of-factness
of the following story of an advertisement, which may tend to illustrate the Antiquary's remark
to Mrs. Macleuchar, anent the starting of a coach or fly to Queensferry. A carrier, who plied
his trade between Aberdeen and a village considerably to the north of it, was asked by one
of the villagers, "Fan are ye gaen to the toon" (Aberdeen). To which he replied, "I'll be in
on Monanday, God willin' and weather permitting an' on Tiseday, fither or no."

It is a curious subject the various shades of Scottish dialect and Scottish expressions, commonly
called Scotticisms. We mark in the course of fifty years how some disappear altogether; others
become more and more rare, and of all of them we may say, I think, that the specimens of them
are to be looked for every year more in the descending classes of society. What was common
amongst peers, judges, lairds, advocates, and people of family and education, is now found
in humbler ranks of life. There are few persons perhaps who have been born in Scotland, and
who have lived long in Scotland, whom a nice southern ear might not detect as from the north.
But far beyond such nicer shades of distinction, there are strong and characteristic marks
of a Caledonian origin, with which some of us have had practical acquaintance. I possess two
curious, and now, I believe, rather scarce, publications on the prevalent Scotticisms of our
speaking and writing. One is entitled "Scotticisms designed to Correct Improprieties of Speech
and Writing," by Dr. Beattie of Aberdeen. The other is to the same purpose, and is entitled,
"Observations on the Scottish Dialect," by the late Right Honourable Sir John Sinclair. Expressions
which were common in their days, and used by persons of all ranks, are not known by the rising
generation. Many amusing equivoques used to be current, arising from Scotch people in England
applying terms and expressions in a manner rather surprising to southern ears. Thus, the story
was told of a public character long associated with the affairs of Scotland, Henry Dundas (first
Viscount Melville), applying to Mr. Pitt for the loan of a horse "the length of Highgate;"
a very common expression in Scotland, at that time, to signify the distance to which the ride
was to extend. Mr. Pitt good-humouredly wrote back to say that he was afraid he had not a horse
in his possession quite so long as Mr. Dundas had mentioned, but he had sent the longest he
had. There is a well-known case of mystification, caused to English ears by the use of Scottish
terms, which took place in the House of Peers during the examination of the Magistrates of
Edinburgh touching the particulars of the Porteous Mob in 1736. The Duke of Newcastle having
asked the Provost with what kind of shot the town-guard commanded by Porteous had loaded their
muskets, received the unexpected reply, "Ou, juist sic as ane shutes dukes and sic like fules
wi'." The answer was considered as a contempt of the House of Lords, and the poor provost would
have suffered from misconception of his patois, had not the Duke of Argyle (who must have been
exceedingly amused) explained that the worthy magistrate's expression, when rendered into English,
did not apply to Peers and Idiots but to ducks and water-fowl. The circumstance is referred
to by Sir W. Scott in the notes to the Heart of Mid-Lothian. A similar equivoque upon the double
meaning of "Deuk" in Scottish language supplied material for a poor woman's honest compliment
to a benevolent Scottish nobleman. John, Duke of Roxburghe, was one day out riding, and at
the gate of Floors he was accosted by an importunate old beggar woman. He gave her half-a-crown,
which pleased her so much that she exclaimed, "Weel's me on your guse face, for Duke's ower
little tae ca' ye."

A very curious list may be made of words used in Scotland in a sense which would be quite unintelligible
to Southerns. Such applications are going out, but I remember them well amongst the old-fashioned
people of Angus and the Mearns quite common in conversation. I subjoin some specimens:--

Bestial signifies amongst Scottish agriculturists cattle generally, the whole aggregate number
of beasts on the farm. Again, a Scottish farmer, when he speaks of his "hogs" or of buying
"hogs," has no reference to swine, but means young sheep, i.e. sheep before they have lost
their first fleece.

Discreet does not express the idea of a prudent or cautious person so much as of one who is
not rude, but considerate of the opinions of others. Such application of the word is said to
have been made by Dr. Chalmers to the late Henry, Bishop of Exeter. These two eminent individuals
had met for the first time at the hospitable house of the late Mr. Murray, the publisher. On
the introduction taking place, the Bishop expressed himself so warmly as to the pleasure it
gave him to meet so distinguished and excellent a man as Dr. Chalmers, that the Doctor, somewhat
surprised at such an unexpected ebullition from an English Church dignitary, could only reply,
"Oh, I am sure your lordship is very 'discreet[60].'"

Enterteening has in olden Scottish usage the sense not of amusing, but interesting. I remember
an honest Dandie Dinmont on a visit to Bath. A lady, who had taken a kind charge of him, accompanied
him to the theatre, and in the most thrilling scene of Kemble's acting, what is usually termed
the dagger scene in Macbeth, she turned to the farmer with a whisper, "Is not that fine?" to
which the confidential reply was, "Oh, mem, its verra enterteening!" Enterteening expressing
his idea of the effect produced.

Pig, in old-fashioned Scotch, was always used for a coarse earthenware jar or vessel. In the
Life of the late Patrick Tytler, the amiable and gifted historian of Scotland, there occurs
an amusing exemplification of the utter confusion of ideas caused by the use of Scottish phraseology.
The family, when they went to London, had taken with them an old Scottish servant who had no
notion of any terms beside her own. She came in one day greatly disturbed at the extremely
backward state of knowledge of domestic affairs amongst the Londoners. She had been to so many
shops and could not get "a great broon pig to haud the butter in."

From a relative of the family I have received an account of a still worse confusion of ideas,
caused by the inquiry of a Mrs. Chisholm of Chisholm, who died in London in 1825, at an advanced
age. She had come from the country to be with her daughter, and was a genuine Scottish lady
of the old school. She wished to purchase a table-cloth of a cheque pattern, like the squares
of a chess or draught board. Now a draught-board used to be called (as I remember) by old Scotch
people a "dam[61] brod[62]." Accordingly, Mrs. Chisholm entered the shop of a linen-draper,
and asked to be shown table-linen a dam-brod pattern. The shopman, although, taken aback by
a request, as he considered it, so strongly worded, by a respectable old lady, brought down
what he assured her was the largest and widest made. No; that would not do. She repeated her
wish for a dam-brod pattern, and left the shop surprised at the stupidity of the London shopman
not having the pattern she asked for.

Silly has in genuine old Scottish use reference to weakness of body only, and not of mind.
Before knowing the use of the word, I remember being much astonished at a farmer of the Mearns
telling me of the strongest-minded man in the county that he was "uncommon silly," not insinuating
any decline of mental vigour, but only meaning that his bodily strength was giving way.

Frail, in like manner, expresses infirmity of body, and implies no charge of any laxity in
moral principle; yet I have seen English persons looking with considerable consternation when
an old-fashioned Scottish lady, speaking of a young and graceful female, lamented her being
so frail.

Fail is another instance of different use of words. In Scotland it used to be quite common
to say of a person whose health and strength had declined, that he had failed. To say this
of a person connected with mercantile business has a very serious effect upon southern ears,
as implying nothing short of bankruptcy and ruin. I recollect many years ago at Monmouth, my
dear mother creating much consternation in the mind of the mayor, by saying of a worthy man,
the principal banker in the town, whom they both concurred in praising, that she was "sorry
to find he was failing."

Honest has in Scotch a peculiar application, irrespective of any integrity of moral character.
It is a kindly mode of referring to an individual, as we would say to a stranger, "Honest man,
would you tell me the way to ----?" or as Lord Hermand, when about to sentence a woman for
stealing, began remonstratively, "Honest woman, whatever garr'd ye steal your neighbour's tub?"

Superstitious: A correspondent informs me that in some parts of Mid-Lothian the people constantly
use the word "superstitious" for "bigoted;" thus, speaking of a very keen Free Church person,
they will say, "He is awfu' supperstitious."

Kail in England simply expresses cabbage, but in Scotland represents the chief meal of the
day. Hence the old-fashioned easy way of asking a friend to dinner was to ask him if he would
take his kail with the family. In the same usage of the word, the Scottish proverb expresses
distress and trouble in a person's affairs, by saying that "he has got his kail through the
reek." In like manner haddock, in Kincardineshire and Aberdeenshire, used to express the same
idea, as the expression is, "Will ye tak your haddock wi' us the day?" that fish being so plentiful
and so excellent that it was a standing dish. There is this difference, however, in the local
usage, that to say in Aberdeen, Will you take your haddock? implies an invitation to dinner;
whilst in Montrose the same expression means an invitation to supper. Differences of pronunciation
also caused great confusion and misunderstanding. Novels used to be pronounced novels; envy
envy; a cloak was a clock, to the surprise of an English lady, to whom the maid said, on her
leaving the house, "Mem, winna ye tak the clock wi' ye?"

The names of children's diseases were a remarkable item in the catalogue of Scottish words:--Thus,
in 1775, Mrs. Betty Muirheid kept a boarding-school for young ladies in the Trongate of Glasgow,
near the Tron steeple. A girl on her arrival was asked whether she had had smallpox. "Yes,
mem, I've had the sma'pox, the nirls[63], the blabs[64], the scaw[65], the kinkhost[66], and
the fever, the branks[67] and the worm[68]."

There is indeed a case of Scottish pronunciation which adds to the force and copiousness of
our language, by discriminating four words, which, according to English speaking, are undistinguishable
in mere pronunciation. The words are--wright (a carpenter), to write (with a pen), right (the
reverse of wrong), rite (a ceremony). The four are, however, distinguished in old-fashioned
Scotch pronunciation thus--1, He's a wiricht; 2, to wireete; 3, richt; 4, rite.

I can remember a peculiar Scottish phrase very commonly used, which now seems to have passed
away. I mean the expression "to let on," indicating the notice or observation of something,
or of some person.--For example, "I saw Mr. ---- at the meeting, but I never let on that I
knew he was present." A form of expression which has been a great favourite in Scotland in
my recollection has much gone out of practice--I mean the frequent use of diminutives, generally
adopted either as terms of endearment or of contempt. Thus it was very common to speak of a
person whom you meant rather to undervalue, as a mannie, a boddie, a bit boddie, or a wee bit
mannie. The Bailie in Rob Roy, when he intended to represent his party as persons of no importance,
used the expression, "We are bits o' Glasgow bodies."

An admirable Scotch expression I recollect from one of the Montrose ladies before referred
to. Her niece was asking a great many questions on some point concerning which her aunt had
been giving her information, and coming over and over the ground, demanding an explanation
how this had happened, and why something else was so and so. The old lady lost her patience,
and at last burst forth: "I winna be back-speired noo, Pally Fullerton." Back-speired! how
much more pithy and expressive than cross-examined! "He's not a man to ride the water on,"
expresses your want of confidence and of trust in the character referred to. Another capital
expression to mark that a person has stated a point rather under than over the truth, is, "The
less I lee," as in Guy Mannering, where the precentor exclaims to Mrs. MacCandlish, "Aweel,
gudewife, then the less I lee." We have found it a very amusing task collecting together a
number of these phrases, and forming them into a connected epistolary composition. We may imagine
the sort of puzzle it would be to a young person of the present day--one of what we may call
the new school. We will suppose an English young lady, or an English educated young lady, lately
married, receiving such a letter as the following from the Scottish aunt of her husband. We
may suppose it to be written by a very old lady, who, for the last fifty years has not moved
from home, and has changed nothing of her early days. I can safely affirm that every word of
it I have either seen written in a letter, or have heard in ordinary conversation:--

     "Montrose, 1858[69].

     "My Dear Niece--I am real glad to find my nevy has made so
     good a choice as to have secured you for his wife; and I am
     sure this step will add much to his comfort, and we behove
     to rejoice at it. He will now look forward to his evening at
     home, and you will be happy when you find you never want
     him. It will be a great pleasure when you hear him in the
     trance, and wipe his feet upon the bass. But Willy is not
     strong, and you must look well after him. I hope you do not
     let him snuff so much as he did. He had a sister, poor
     thing, who died early. She was remarkably clever, and well
     read, and most intelligent, but was always uncommonly
     silly[70] In the autumn of '40 she had a sair host, and
     was aye speaking through a cold, and at dinner never did
     more than to sup a few family broth. I am afraid she did
     not change her feet when she came in from the wet one
     evening. I never let on that I observed anything to be
     wrong; but I remember asking her to come and sit upon the
     fire. But she went out, and did not take the door with her.
     She lingered till next spring, when she had a great
     income[71], and her parents were then too poor to take her
     south, and she died. I hope you will like the lassie Eppie we
     have sent you. She is a discreet girl, and comes of a
     decent family. She has a sister married upon a Seceding
     minister at Kirkcaldy. But I hear he expects to be
     transported soon. She was brought up in one of the
     hospitals here. Her father had been a souter and a pawky
     chiel enough, but was doited for many years, and her
     mother was sair dottled. We have been greatly interested in
     the hospital where Eppie was educate, and intended getting
     up a bazaar for it, and would have asked you to help us, as
     we were most anxious to raise some additional funds, when one
     of the Bailies died and left it feuing-stances to the
     amount of 5000 pounds, which was really a great
     mortification. I am not a good hand of write, and
     therefore shall stop. I am very tired, and have been
     gantin[72] for this half-hour, and even in correspondence
     gantin' may be smittin'[73]. The kitchen[74] is just
     coming in, and I feel a smell of tea, so when I get my
     four hours, that will refresh me and set me up again.--I
     am, your affectionate aunt, ISABEL DINGWALL."

This letter, then, we suppose written by a very old Forfarshire lady to her niece in England,
and perhaps the young lady who received it might answer it in a style as strange to her aunt
as her aunt's is to her, especially if she belonged to that lively class of our young female
friends who indulge a little in phraseology which they have imbibed from their brothers, or
male cousins, who have, perhaps for their amusement, encouraged them in its use. The answer,
then, might be something like this; and without meaning to be severe or satirical upon our
young lady friends, I may truly say that, though I never heard from one young lady all these
fast terms, I have heard the most of them separately from many:--

     "My Dear Aunty--Many thanks for your kind letter and its
     enclosure. From my not knowing Scotch, I am not quite up to
     the mark, and some of the expressions I don't twig at all.
     Willie is absent for a few days, but when he returns home he
     will explain it; he is quite awake on all such things. I am
     glad you are pleased that Willie and I are now spliced. I
     am well aware that you will hear me spoken of in some
     quarters as a fast young lady. A man here had the impudence
     to say that when he visited my husband's friends he would
     tell them so. I quietly and civilly replied, 'You be blowed!'
     So don't believe him. We get on famously at present. Willie
     comes home from the office every afternoon at five. We
     generally take a walk before dinner, and read and work if we
     don't go out; and I assure you we are very jolly. We don't
     know many people here yet. It is rather a swell
     neighbourhood; and if we can't get in with the nobs, depend
     upon it we will never take up with any society that is
     decidedly snobby. I daresay the girl you are sending will
     be very useful to us; our present one is an awful slow
     coach. In fact, the sending her to us was a regular do.
     But we hope some day to sport buttons. My father and mother
     paid us a visit last week. The governor is well, and,
     notwithstanding years and infirmities, comes out quite a
     jolly old cove. He is, indeed, if you will pardon the
     partiality of a daughter, a regular brick. He says he will
     help us if we can't get on, and I make no doubt will in due
     time fork out the tin. I am busy working a cap for you,
     dear aunty; it is from a pretty German pattern, and I think
     when finished will be quite a stunner. There is a shop in
     Regent Street where I hire patterns, and can get six of them
     for five bob. I then return them without buying them, which
     I think a capital dodge. I hope you will sport it for my
     sake at your first tea and turn out.

     "I have nothing more to say particular, but am always

     "Your affectionate niece,

     "ELIZA DINGWALL."

     "P.S.--I am trying to break Willie off his horrid habit of
     taking snuff. I had rather see him take his cigar when we are
     walking. You will be told, I daresay, that I sometimes take a
     weed myself. It is not true, dear aunty."

Before leaving the question of change in Scottish expressions, it may be proper to add a few
words on the subject of Scottish dialects--i.e., on the differences which exist in different
counties or localities in the Scottish tongue itself. These differences used to be as marked
as different languages; of course they still exist amongst the peasantry as before. The change
consists in their gradual vanishing from the conversation of the educated and refined. The
dialects with which I am most conversant are the two which present the greatest contrast, viz.
the Angus and the Aberdeen, or the slow and broad Scotch--the quick and sharp Scotch. Whilst
the one talks of "Buuts and shoon," the other calls the same articles "beets and sheen." With
the Aberdonian "what" is always "fat" or "fatten;" "music" is "meesic;" "brutes" are "breets;"
"What are ye duin'?" of southern Scotch, in Aberdeen would be "Fat are ye deein'?" Fergusson,
nearly a century ago, noted this peculiarity of dialect in his poem of The Leith Races:--

     "The Buchan bodies through the beach,
        Their bunch of Findrams cry;
      And skirl out bauld in Norland speech,
        Gude speldans fa will buy?"

"Findon," or "Finnan haddies," are split, smoked, and partially dried haddocks. Fergusson,
in using the word "Findrams", which is not found in our glossaries, has been thought to be
in error, but his accuracy has been verified singularly enough, within the last few days, by
a worthy octogenarian Newhaven fisherman, bearing the characteristic name of Flucker, who remarked
"that it was a word commonly used in his youth; and, above all," he added, "when Leith Races
were held on the sands, he was like to be deeved wi' the lang-tongued hizzies skirling out,
'Aell a Findram Speldrains,' and they jist ca'ed it that to get a better grip o't wi' their
tongues."

In Galloway, in 1684, Symson, afterwards an ousted Episcopalian minister (of Kirkinner), notes
some peculiarities in the speech of the people in that district. "Some of the countrey people,
especially those of the elder sort, do very often omit the letter 'h' after 't' as ting for
thing; tree for three; tatch for thatch; wit for with; fait for faith; mout for mouth, etc.;
and also, contrary to some north countrey people, they oftentimes pronounce 'w' for 'v,' as
serwant for servant; and so they call the months of February, March, and April, the ware quarter,
from ver[75]. Hence their common proverb, speaking of the storms in February, 'winter never
comes till ware comes.'" These peculiarities of language have almost disappeared--the immense
influx of Irish emigrants during late years has exercised a perceptible influence over the
dialect of Wigtonshire.

When a southerner mentioned the death of a friend to a lady of the granite city, she asked,
"Fat dee'd he o'?" which being utterly incomprehensible to the person asked, another Aberdonian
lady kindly explained the question, and put it into language which she supposed could not be
mistaken, as thus, "Fat did he dee o'?" If there was this difference between the Aberdeen and
the Forfar dialect, how much greater must be that difference when contrasted with the ore rotundo
language of an English southern dignitary. Such a one being present at a school examination
in Aberdeen wished to put some questions on Scripture history himself, and asked an intelligent
boy, "What was the ultimate fate of Pharaoh?" This the boy not understanding, the master put
the same question Aberdonicé, "Jemmy, fat was the hinner end o' Pharaoh?" which called forth
the ready reply, "He was drouned i' the Red Sea." A Forfarshire parent, dissatisfied with his
son's English pronunciation, remonstrated with him, "What for div' ye say why? why canna ye
say 'what for'?"

The power of Scottish phraseology, or rather of Scottish language, could not be better displayed
than in the following Aberdonian description of London theatricals:--Mr. Taylor, at one time
well known in London as having the management of the opera-house, had his father up from Aberdeen
to visit him and see the wonders of the capital. When the old man returned home, his friends,
anxious to know the impressions produced on his mind by scenes and characters so different
from what he had been accustomed to at home, inquired what sort of business his son carried
on? "Ou," said he (in reference to the operatic singers and the corps de ballet), "he just
keeps a curn[76] o' quainies[77] and a wheen widdyfous[78], and gars them fissle[79], and loup,
and mak murgeons[80], to please the great fowk."

Another ludicrous interrogatory occurred regarding the death of a Mr. Thomas Thomson. It appeared
there were two cousins of this name, both corpulent men. When it was announced that Mr. Thomas
Thomson was dead, an Aberdeen friend of the family asked, "Fatten Thamas Thamson?" He was informed
that it was a fat Thamas Thamson, upon which the Aberdeen query naturally arose, "Ay, but fatten
fat Thamas Thamson?" Another illustration of the Aberdeen dialect is thus given:--"The Pope
o' Rome requires a bull to do his wark, but the Emperor o' France made a coo dee't a'"--a cow
do it all--a pun on coup d'état. A young lady from Aberdeen had been on a visit to Montrose,
and was disappointed at finding there a great lack of beaux, and balls, and concerts. This
lack was not made up to her by the invitations which she had received to dinner parties. And
she thus expressed her feelings on the subject in her native dialect, when asked how she liked
Montrose: "Indeed there's neither men nor meesic, and fat care I for meat?" There is no male
society and no concerts, and what do I care for dinners? The dialect and the local feelings
of Aberdeen were said to have produced some amusement in London, as displayed by the lady of
the Provost of Aberdeen when accompanying her husband going up officially to the capital. Some
persons to whom she had been introduced recommended her going to the opera as one of the sights
worthy the attention of a stranger. The good lady, full of the greatness of her situation as
wife of the provost, and knowing the sensation her appearance in public occasioned when in
her own city, and supposing that a little excitement would accompany her with the London public,
rather declined, under the modest plea, "Fat for should I gang to the opera, just to creat
a confeesion?" An aunt of mine, who knew Aberdeen well, used to tell a traditionary story of
two Aberdonian ladies, who by their insinuations against each other, finely illustrated the
force of the dialect then in common use. They had both of them been very attentive to a sick
lady in declining health, and on her death each had felt a distrust of the perfect disinterestedness
of the other's attention. This created more than a coolness between them, and the bad feeling
came out on their passing in the street. The one insinuated her suspicions of unfair dealing
with the property of the deceased by ejaculating, as the other passed her, "Henny pig[81] and
green tea," to which the other retorted, in the same spirit, "Silk coat and negligee[82]."
Aberdonian pronunciation produced on one occasion a curious equivoque between the minister
and a mother of a family with whom he was conversing in a pastoral way. The minister had said,
"Weel, Margaret, I hope you're thoroughly ashamed of your sins" Now, in Aberdeenshire sons
are pronounced sins; accordingly, to the minister's surprise, Margaret burst forth, "Ashamed
o' ma sins! na, na, I'm proud o' ma sins. Indeed, gin it werena for thae cutties o' dauchters,
I should be ower proud o' ma sins."

Any of my readers who are not much conversant with Aberdeen dialect will find the following
a good specimen:--A lady who resided in Aberdeen, being on a visit to some friends in the country,
joined an excursion on horseback. Not being much of an equestrian, she was mounted upon a Highland
pony as being the canniest baste. He, however, had a trick of standing still in crossing a
stream. A burn had to be crossed--the rest of the party passed on, while "Paddy" remained,
pretending to drink. Miss More, in great desperation, called out to one of her friends--"Bell,
'oman, turn back an gie me your bit fuppie, for the breet's stannin' i' the peel wi' ma."

A rich specimen of Aberdeen dialect, under peculiar circumstances, was supplied by an Aberdonian
lady who had risen in the world from selling fruit at a stall to be the wife of the Lord Provost.
Driving along in her own carriage, she ordered it to stop, and called to her a poor woman whom
she saw following her old occupation. After some colloquy, she dismissed her very coolly, remarking,
"'Deed, freet's dear sin' I sauld freet in streets o' Aberdeen." This anecdote of reference
to a good lady's more humble occupation than riding in her carriage may introduce a somewhat
analogous anecdote, in which a more distinguished personage than the wife of the Provost of
Aberdeen takes a prominent part. The present Archbishop of Canterbury tells the story himself,
with that admixture of humour and of true dignity by which his Grace's manner is so happily
distinguished. The Archbishop's father in early life lived much at Dollar, where, I believe,
he had some legal and official appointment. His sons, the Archbishop and his brother, attended
the grammar school, rather celebrated in the country; they ran about and played like other
lads, and were known as schoolboys to the peasantry. In after days, when the Archbishop had
arrived at his present place of dignity as Primate of all England, he was attending a great
confirmation service at Croydon--the churchwardens, clergy, mayors, etc., of the place in attendance
upon the Archbishop, and a great congregation of spectators. On going up the centre of the
church, a Dollar man, who had got into the crowd in a side aisle, said, loud enough for the
Archbishop to hear, "There wasna muckle o' this at Dollar, my Lord."

I have not had leisure to pursue, as I had intended, a further consideration of SCOTTISH DIALECT,
and their differences from each other in the north, south, east, and west of Scotland. I merely
remark now, that the dialect of one district is considered quite barbarous, and laughed at
by the inhabitants of another district where a different form of language is adopted. I have
spoken of the essential difference between Aberdeen and Southern Scotch. An English gentleman
had been visiting the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, and accompanied him to Aberdeen. His lordship
of Edinburgh introduced his English friend to the Provost of Aberdeen, and they both attended
a great dinner given by the latter. After grace had been said, the Provost kindly and hospitably
addressed the company, Aberdonice--"Now, gentlemen, fah tee, fah tee." The Englishman whispered
to his friend, and asked what was meant by "fah tee, fah tee;" to which his lordship replied--"Hout,
he canna speak; he means fau too, fau too." Thus one Scotticism was held in terror by those
who used a different Scotticism: as at Inverary, the wife of the chief writer of the place,
seeking to secure her guest from the taint of inferior society, intimated to him, but somewhat
confidentially, that Mrs. W. (the rival writer's wife) was quite a vulgar body, so much so
as to ask any one leaving the room to "snib the door," instead of bidding them, as she triumphantly
observed, "sneck the door."

Now, to every one who follows these anecdotes of a past time, it must be obvious how much peculiarities
of Scottish wit and humour depend upon the language in which they are clothed. As I have before
remarked, much of the point depends upon the broad Scotch with which they are accompanied.
As a type and representative of that phraseology, we would specially recommend a study of our
Scottish proverbs. In fact, in Scottish proverbs will be found an epitome of the Scottish phraseology,
which is peculiar and characteristic. I think it quite clear that there are proverbs exclusively
Scottish, and as we find embodied in them traits of Scottish character, and many peculiar forms
of Scottish thought and Scottish language, sayings of this kind, once so familiar, should have
a place in our Scottish Reminiscences. Proverbs are literally, in many instances, becoming
reminiscences. They now seem to belong to that older generation whom we recollect, and who
used them in conversation freely and constantly. To strengthen an argument or illustrate a
remark by a proverb was then a common practice in conversation. Their use, however, is now
considered vulgar, and their formal application is almost prohibited by the rules of polite
society. Lord Chesterfield denounced the practice of quoting proverbs as a palpable violation
of all polite refinement in conversation. Notwithstanding all this, we acknowledge having much
pleasure in recalling our national proverbial expressions. They are full of character, and
we find amongst them important truths, expressed forcibly, wisely, and gracefully. The expression
of Bacon has often been quoted--"The genius, wit, and wisdom of a nation, are discovered by
their proverbs."

All nations have their proverbs, and a vast number of books have been written on the subject.
We find, accordingly, that collections have been made of proverbs considered as belonging peculiarly
to Scotland. The collections to which I have had access are the following:--

1. The fifth edition, by Balfour, of "Ray's Complete Collection of English Proverbs," in which
is a separate collection of those which are considered Scottish Proverbs--1813. Ray professes
to have taken these from Fergusson's work mentioned below.

2. A Complete Collection of Scottish Proverbs, explained and made intelligible to the English
reader, by James Kelly, M.A., published in London 1721.

3. Scottish Proverbs gathered together by David Fergusson, sometime minister at Dunfermline,
and put ordine alphabetico when he departed this life anno 1598. Edinburgh, 1641.

4. A collection of Scots Proverbs, dedicated to the Tenantry of Scotland, by Allan Ramsay.
This collection is found in the edition of his Poetical Works, 3 vols. post 8vo, Edin. 1818,
but is not in the handsome edition of 1800. London, 2 vols. 8vo.

5. Scottish Proverbs, collected and arranged by Andrew Henderson, with an introductory Essay
by W. Motherwell. Edin. 1832.

6. The Proverbial Philosophy of Scotland, an address to the School of Arts, by William Stirling
of Keir, M.P. Stirling and Edin. 1855.

The collection of Ray, the great English naturalist, is well known. The first two editions,
published at Cambridge in 1670 and 1678, were by the author; subsequent editions were by other
editors.

The work by James Kelly professes to collect Scottish proverbs only. It is a volume of nearly
400 pages, and contains a short explanation or commentary attached to each, and often parallel
sayings from other languages[83]. Mr. Kelly bears ample testimony to the extraordinary free
use made of proverbs in his time by his countrymen and by himself. He says that "there were
current in society upwards of 3000 proverbs, exclusively Scottish." He adds, "The Scots are
wonderfully given to this way of speaking, and, as the consequence of that, abound with proverbs,
many of which are very expressive, quick, and home to the purpose; and, indeed, this humour
prevails universally over the whole nation, especially among the better sort of the commonalty,
none of whom will discourse with you any considerable time but he will affirm every assertion
and observation with a Scottish proverb. To that nation I owe my birth and education; and to
that manner of speaking I was used from my infancy, to such a degree that I became in some
measure remarkable for it." This was written in 1721, and we may see from Mr. Kelly's account
what a change has taken place in society as regards this mode of intercourse. Our author states
that he has "omitted in his collection many popular proverbs which are very pat and expressive,"
and adds as his reason, that "since it does not become a man of manners to use them, it does
not become a man of my age and profession to write them." What was Mr. Kelly's profession or
what his age does not appear from any statements in this volume; but, judging by many proverbs
which he has retained, those which consideration of years and of profession induced him to
omit must have been bad indeed, and unbecoming for any age or any profession[84]. The third
collection by Mr. Fergusson is mentioned by Kelly as the only one which had been made before
his time, and that he had not met with it till he had made considerable progress in his own
collection. The book is now extremely rare, and fetches a high price. By the great kindness
of the learned librarian, I have been permitted to see the copy belonging to the library of
the Writers to the Signet. It is the first edition, and very rare. A quaint little thin volume,
such as delights the eyes of true bibliomaniacs, unpaged, and published at Edinburgh 1641--although
on the title-page the proverbs are said to have been collected at Mr. Fergusson's death, 1598[85].
There is no preface or notice by the author, but an address from the printer, "to the merrie,
judicious, and discreet reader."

The proverbs, amounting to 945, are given without any comment or explanation. Many of them
are of a very antique cast of language; indeed some would be to most persons quite unintelligible
without a lexicon.

The printer, in his address "to the merrie, judicious, and discreet reader," refers in the
following quaint expressions to the author:--"Therefore manie in this realme that hath hard
of David Fergusson, sometime minister at Dunfermline, and of his quick answers and speeches,
both to great persons and others inferiours, and hath hard of his proverbs which hee gathered
together in his time, and now we put downe according to the order of the alphabet; and manie,
of all ranks of persons, being verie desirous to have the said proverbs, I have thought good
to put them to the presse for thy better satisfaction.... I know that there may be some that
will say and marvell that a minister should have taken pains to gather such proverbs together;
but they that knew his forme of powerfull preaching the word, and his ordinar talking, ever
almost using proverbiall speeches, will not finde fault with this that he hath done. And whereas
there are some old Scottish words not in use now, bear with that, because if ye alter those
words, the proverb will have no grace; and so, recommending these proverbs to thy good use,
I bid thee farewell."

I now subjoin a few of Fergusson's Proverbs, verbatim, which are of a more obsolete character,
and have appended explanations, of the correctness of which, however, I am not quite confident:--

A year a nurish[86], seven year a da[87]. Refers, I presume, to fulfilling the maternal office.

Anes payit never cravit. Debts once paid give no more trouble.

All wald[88] have all, all wald forgie[89]. Those who exact much should be ready to concede.

A gangang[90] fit[91] is aye[92] gettin (gin[93] it were but a thorn), or, as it sometimes
runs, gin it were but a broken tae, i.e. toe. A man of industry will certainly get a living;
though the proverb is often applied to those who went abroad and got a mischief when they might
safely have stayed at home--(Kelly).

All crakes[94], all bears[95]. Spoken against bullies who kept a great hectoring, and yet,
when put to it, tamely pocket an affront--(Kelly).

Bourd[96] not wi' bawtie[97] (lest he bite you). Do not jest too familiarly with your superiors
(Kelly), or with dangerous characters.

Bread's house skailed never[98] While people have bread they need not give up housekeeping.
Spoken when one has bread and wishes something better--(Kelly).

Crabbit[99] was and cause had. Spoken ironically of persons put out of temper without adequate
cause.

Dame, deem[100] warily, (ye watna[101] wha wytes[102] yersell).--Spoken to remind those who
pass hard censures on others that they may themselves be censured.

Efter lang mint[103] never dint[104]. Spoken of long and painful labour producing little effect.
Kelly's reading is "Lang mint little dint." Spoken when men threaten much and dare not execute--(Kelly).

Fill fou[105] and hand[106] fou maks a stark[107] man. In Border language a stark man was one
who takes and keeps boldly.

He that crabbs[108] without cause should mease[109] without mends[110]. Spoken to remind those
who are angry without cause, that they should not be particular in requiring apologies from others.

He is worth na weill that may not bide na wae. He deserves not the sweet that will not taste
the sour. He does not deserve prosperity who cannot meet adversity.

Kame[111] sindle[112] kame sair[113]. Applied to those who forbear for a while, but when once
roused can act with severity.

Kamesters[114] are aye creeshie[115]. It is usual for men to look like their trade.

Let alane maks mony lurden[116]. Want of correction makes many a bad boy--(Kelly).

Mony tynes[117] the half-mark[118] whinger[119] (for the halfe pennie whang)[120]. Another
version of penny wise and pound foolish.

Na plie[121] is best.

Reavers[122] should not be rewers[123]. Those who are so fond of a thing as to snap at it,
should not repent when they have got it--(Kelly).

Sok and seill is best. The interpretation of this proverb is not obvious, and later writers
do not appear to have adopted it from Fergusson. It is quite clear that sok or sock is the
ploughshare. Seil is happiness, as in Kelly. "Seil comes not till sorrow be o'er;" and in Aberdeen
they say, "Seil o' your face," to express a blessing. My reading is "the plough and happiness
the best lot." The happiest life is the healthy country one. See Robert Burns' spirited song
with the chorus:

     "Up wi' my ploughman lad,
       And hey my merry ploughman;
     Of a' the trades that I do ken,
       Commend me to the ploughman."

A somewhat different reading of this very obscure and now indeed obsolete proverb has been
suggested by an esteemed and learned friend:--"I should say rather it meant that the ploughshare,
or country life, accompanied with good luck or fortune was best; i.e., that industry coupled
with good fortune (good seasons and the like) was the combination that was most to be desired.
Soel, in Anglo-Saxon, as a noun, means opportunity, and then good luck, happiness, etc."

There's mae[124] madines[125] nor makines[126]. Girls are more plentiful in the world than hares.

Ye bried[127] of the gouk[128], ye have not a rhyme[129] but ane. Applied to persons who tire
everybody by constantly harping on one subject.

The collection by Allan Ramsay is very good, and professes to correct the errors of former
collectors. I have now before me the first edition, Edinburgh, 1737, with the appropriate motto
on the title-page, "That maun be true that a' men say." This edition contains proverbs only,
the number being 2464. Some proverbs in this collection I do not find in others, and one quality
it possesses in a remarkable degree--it is very Scotch. The language of the proverbial wisdom
has the true Scottish flavour; not only is this the case with the proverbs themselves, but
the dedication to the tenantry of Scotland, prefixed to the collection, is written in pure
Scottish dialect. From this dedication I make an extract, which falls in with our plan of recording
Scotch reminiscences, as Allan Ramsay there states the great value set upon proverbs in his
day, and the great importance which he attaches to them as teachers of moral wisdom, and as
combining amusement with instruction. The prose of Allan Ramsay has, too, a spice of his poetry
in its composition. His dedication is, To the tenantry of Scotland, farmers of the dales, and
storemasters of the hills--

"Worthy friends--The following hoard of wise sayings and observations of our forefathers, which
have been gathering through mony bygane ages, I have collected with great care, and restored
to their proper sense....

"As naething helps our happiness mair than to have the mind made up wi' right principles, I
desire you, for the thriving and pleasure of you and yours, to use your een and lend your lugs
to these guid auld saws, that shine wi' wail'd sense, and will as lang as the world wags. Gar
your bairns get them by heart; let them have a place among your family-books, and may never
a window-sole through the country be without them. On a spare hour, when the day is clear,
behind a ruck, or on the green howm, draw the treasure frae your pouch, an' enjoy the pleasant
companion. Ye happy herds, while your hirdsell are feeding on the flowery braes, you may eithly
make yoursells master of the haleware. How usefou' will it prove to you (wha hae sae few opportunities
of common clattering) when ye forgather wi' your friends at kirk or market, banquet or bridal!
By your proficiency you'll be able, in the proverbial way, to keep up the saul of a conversation
that is baith blyth an usefou'."

Mr. Henderson's work is a compilation from those already mentioned. It is very copious, and
the introductory essay contains some excellent remarks upon the wisdom and wit of Scottish
proverbial sayings.

Mr. Stirling's (now Sir W. Stirling-Maxwell's) address, like everything he writes, indicates
a minute and profound knowledge of his subject, and is full of picturesque and just views of
human nature. He attaches much importance to the teaching conveyed in proverbial expressions,
and recommends his readers even still to collect such proverbial expressions as may yet linger
in conversation, because, as he observes, "If it is not yet registered, it is possible that
it might have died with the tongue from which you took it, and so have been lost for ever."
"I believe," he adds, "the number of good old saws still floating as waifs and strays on the
tide of popular talk to be much greater than might at first appear."

One remark is applicable to all these collections--viz., that out of so large a number there
are many of them on which we have little grounds for deciding that they are exclusively Scottish.
In fact, some are mere translations of proverbs adopted by many nations; some of universal
adoption. Thus we have--

     A burnt bairn fire dreads.
     Ae swallow makes nae simmer.
     Faint heart ne'er wan fair lady.
     Ill weeds wax weel.
     Mony sma's mak a muckle.
     O' twa ills chuse the least.
     Set a knave to grip a knave.
     Twa wits are better than ane.
     There's nae fule like an auld fule.
     Ye canna mak a silk purse o' a sow's lug.
     Ae bird i' the hand is worth twa fleeing.
     Mony cooks ne'er made gude kail.

Of numerous proverbs such as these, some may or may not be original in the Scottish. Sir William
remarks that many of the best and oldest proverbs may be common to all people--may have occurred
to all. In our national collections, therefore, some of the proverbs recorded may be simply
translations into Scotch of what have been long considered the property of other nations. Still,
I hope it is not a mere national partiality to say that many of the common proverbs gain much
by such translation from other tongues. All that I would attempt now is, to select some of
our more popular proverbial sayings, which many of us can remember as current amongst us, and
were much used by the late generation in society, and to add a few from the collections I have
named, which bear a very decided Scottish stamp either in turn of thought or in turn of language.

I remember being much struck the first time I heard the application of that pretty Scottish
saying regarding a fair bride. I was walking in Montrose, a day or two before her marriage,
with a young lady, a connection of mine, who merited this description, when she was kindly
accosted by an old friend, an honest fish-wife of the town, "Weel, Miss Elizabeth, hae ye gotten
a' yer claes ready?" to which the young lady modestly answered, "Oh, Janet, my claes are soon
got ready;" and Janet replied, in the old Scotch proverb, "Ay, weel, a bonnie bride's sune
buskit[130]." In the old collection, an addition less sentimental is made to this proverb,
A short horse is sune wispit[131].

To encourage strenuous exertions to meet difficult circumstances, is well expressed by Setting
a stout heart to a stey brae.

The mode of expressing that the worth of a handsome woman outweighs even her beauty, has a
very Scottish character--She's better than she's bonnie. The opposite of this was expressed
by a Highlander of his own wife, when he somewhat ungrammatically said of her, "She's bonnier
than she's better."

The frequent evil to harvest operations from autumnal rains and fogs in Scotland is well told
in the saying, A dry summer ne'er made a dear peck.

There can be no question as to country in the following, which seems to express generally that
persons may have the name and appearance of greatness without the reality--A' Stuarts are na
sib[132] to the king.

There is an excellent Scottish version of the common proverb, "He that's born to be hanged
will never be drowned."--The water will never warr[133], the widdie, i.e. never cheat the gallows.
This saying received a very naive practical application during the anxiety and alarm of a storm.
One of the passengers, a good simple-minded minister, was sharing the alarm that was felt around
him, until spying one of his parishioners, of whose ignominious end he had long felt persuaded,
he exclaimed to himself, "Oh, we are all safe now," and accordingly accosted the poor man with
strong assurances of the great pleasure he had in seeing him on board.

It's ill getting the breeks aff the Highlandman is a proverb that savours very strong of a
Lowland Scotch origin. Having suffered loss at the hands of their neighbours from the hills,
this was a mode of expressing the painful truth that there was little hope of obtaining redress
from those who had no means at their disposal.

Proverbs connected with the bagpipes I set down as legitimate Scotch, as thus--Ye are as lang
in tuning your pipes as anither wad play a spring[134]. You are as long of setting about a
thing as another would be in doing it.

There is a set of Scottish proverbs which we may group together as containing one quality in
common, and that in reference to the Evil Spirit, and to his agency in the world. This is a
reference often, I fear, too lightly made; but I am not conscious of anything deliberately
profane or irreverent in the following:--

The deil's nae sae ill as he's caa'd. The most of people may be found to have some redeeming
good point: applied in Guy Mannering by the Deacon to Gilbert Glossin, upon his intimating
his intention to come to his shop soon for the purpose of laying in his winter stock of groceries.

To the same effect, It's a sin to lee on the deil. Even of the worst people, truth at least
should be spoken.

He should hae a lang-shafted spune that sups kail wi' the deil. He should be well guarded and
well protected that has to do with cunning and unprincipled men.

Lang ere the deil dee by the dyke-side. Spoken when the improbable death of some powerful and
ill-disposed person is talked of.

Let ae deil ding anither. Spoken when too bad persons are at variance over some evil work.

The deil's bairns hae deil's luck. Spoken enviously when ill people prosper.

The deil's a busy bishop in his ain diocie. Bad men are sure to be active in promoting their
own bad ends. A quaint proverb of this class I have been told of as coming from the reminiscences
of an old lady of quality, to recommend a courteous manner to every one: It's aye gude to be
ceevil, as the auld wife said when she beckit[135] to the deevil.

Raise nae mair deils than ye are able to lay. Provoke no strifes which ye may be unable to appease.

The deil's aye gude to his ain. A malicious proverb, spoken as if those whom we disparage were
deriving their success from bad causes.

Ye wad do little for God an the deevil was dead. A sarcastic mode of telling a person that
fear, rather than love or principle, is the motive to his good conduct.

In the old collection already referred to is a proverb which, although somewhat personal, is
too good to omit. It is doubtful how it took its origin, whether as a satire against the decanal
order in general, or against some obnoxious dean in particular. These are the terms of it:
The deil an' the dean begin wi' ae letter. When the deil has the dean the kirk will be the better.

The deil's gane ower Jock Wabster is a saying which I have been accustomed to in my part of
the country from early years. It expresses generally misfortune or confusion, but I am not
quite sure of the exact meaning, or who is represented by "Jock Wabster." It was a great favourite
with Sir Walter Scott, who quotes it twice in Rob Roy.

There are two very pithy Scottish proverbial expressions for describing the case of young women
losing their chance of good marriages by setting their aims too high. Thus an old lady, speaking
of her granddaughter having made what she considered a poor match, described her as having
"lookit at the moon, and lichtit[136] in the midden."

It is recorded again of a celebrated beauty, Becky Monteith, that being asked how she had not
made a good marriage, she replied, "Ye see, I wadna hae the walkers, and the riders gaed by."

It's ill to wauken sleeping dogs. It is a bad policy to rouse dangerous and mischievous people,
who are for the present quiet.

It is nae mair ferly[137] to see a woman greit than to see a goose go barefit. A harsh and
ungallant reference to the facility with which the softer sex can avail themselves of tears
to carry a point.

A Scots mist will weet an Englishman to the skin. A proverb, evidently of Caledonian origin,
arising from the frequent complaints made by English visitors of the heavy mists which hang
about our hills, and which are found to annoy the southern traveller as it were downright rain.

Keep your ain fish-guts to your ain sea-maws. This was a favourite proverb with Sir Walter
Scott, when he meant to express the policy of first considering the interests that are nearest
home. The saying savours of the fishing population of the east cost.

A Yule feast may be done at Pasch. Festivities, although usually practised at Christmas, need
not, on suitable occasions, be confined to any season.

It's better to sup wi' a cutty than want a spune. Cutty means anything short, stumpy, and not
of full growth; frequently applied to a short-handled horn spoon. As Meg Merrilies says to
the bewildered Dominie, "If ye dinna eat instantly, by the bread and salt, I'll put it down
your throat wi' the cutty spune."

"Fules mak feasts and wise men eat 'em, my Lord." This was said to a Scottish nobleman on his
giving a great entertainment, and who readily answered, "Ay, and Wise men make proverbs and
fools repeat 'em."

A green Yule[138] and a white Pays[139] mak a fat kirk-yard. A very coarse proverb, but may
express a general truth as regards the effects of season on the human frame. Another of a similar
character is, An air[140] winter maks a sair[141] winter.

Wha will bell the cat? The proverb is used in reference to a proposal for accomplishing a difficult
or dangerous task, and alludes to the fable of the poor mice proposing to put a bell about
the cat's neck, that they might be apprised of his coming. The historical application is well
known. When the nobles of Scotland proposed to go in a body to Stirling to take Cochrane, the
favourite of James the Third, and hang him, the Lord Gray asked, "It is well said, but wha
will bell the cat?" The Earl of Angus accepted the challenge, and effected the object. To his
dying day he was called Archibald Bell-the-Cat.

Ye hae tint the tongue o' the trump. "Trump" is a Jew's harp. To lose the tongue of it is to
lose what is essential to its sound.

Meat and mass hinders nae man. Needful food, and suitable religious exercises, should not be
spared under greatest haste.

Ye fand it whar the Highlandman fand the tangs (i.e. at the fireside). A hit at our mountain
neighbours, who occasionally took from the Lowlands--as having found--something that was never
lost.

His head will ne'er rive (i.e. tear) his father's bonnet. A picturesque way of expressing that
the son will never equal the influence and ability of his sire.

His bark is waur nor his bite. A good-natured apology for one who is good-hearted and rough
in speech.

Do as the cow of Forfar did, tak a standing drink. This proverb relates to an occurrence which
gave rise to a lawsuit and a whimsical legal decision. A woman in Forfar, who was brewing,
set out her tub of beer to cool. A cow came by and drank it up. The owner of the cow was sued
for compensation, but the bailies of Forfar, who tried the case, acquitted the owner of the
cow, on the ground that the farewell drink, called in the Highlands the dochan doris[142],
or stirrup-cup, taken by the guest standing by the door, was never charged; and as the cow
had taken but a standing drink outside, it could not, according to the Scottish usage, be chargeable.
Sir Walter Scott has humorously alluded to this circumstance in the notes to Waverley, but
has not mentioned it as the subject of an old Scotch proverb.

Bannocks are better nor nae kind o' bread. Evidently Scottish. Better have oatmeal cakes to
eat than be in want of wheaten loaves.

Folly is a bonny dog. Meaning, I suppose, that many are imposed upon by the false appearances
and attractions of vicious pleasures.

The e'ening brings a' hame is an interesting saying, meaning, that the evening of life, or
the approach of death, softens many of our political and religious differences. I do not find
this proverb in the older collections, but Sir William Maxwell justly calls it "a beautiful
proverb, which, lending itself to various uses, may be taken as an expression of faith in the
gradual growth and spread of large-hearted Christian charity, the noblest result of our happy
freedom of thought and discussion." The literal idea of the "e'ening bringing a' hame," has
a high and illustrious antiquity, as in the fragment of Sappho, [Greek: 'Espere, panta phereis--phereis
oin (or oinon) phereis aiga, phereis maeteri paida]--which is thus paraphrased by Lord Byron
in Don Juan, iii. 107:--

     "O Hesperus, thou bringest all good things--
       Home to the weary, to the hungry cheer;
     To the young birds the parent's brooding wings,
       The welcome stall to the o'erlaboured steer, etc.
     Thou bring'st the child, too, to the mother's breast."

A similar graceful and moral saying inculcates an acknowledgment of gratitude for the past
favours which we have enjoyed when we come to the close of the day or the close of life--

     Ruse[143] the fair day at e'en.

But a very learned and esteemed friend has suggested another reading of this proverb, in accordance
with the celebrated saying of Solon (Arist. Eth. N.I. 10): [Greek: Kata Solona chreon telos
hozan]--Do not praise the fairness of the day till evening; do not call the life happy till
you have seen the close; or, in other matters, do not boast that all is well till you have
conducted your undertaking to a prosperous end.

Let him tak a spring on his ain fiddle. Spoken of a foolish and unreasonable person; as if
to say, "We will for the present allow him to have his own way."

The kirk is meikle, but ye may say mass in ae end o't; or, as I have received it in another
form, "If we canna preach in the kirk, we can sing mass in the quire." This intimates, where
something is alleged to be too much, that you need take no more than what you have need for.
I heard the proverb used in this sense by Sir Walter Scott at his own table. His son had complained
of some quaighs which Sir Walter had produced for a dram after dinner, that they were too large.
His answer was, "Well, Walter, as my good mother used to say, if the kirk is ower big, just
sing mass in the quire." Here is another reference to kirk and quire--He rives[144] the kirk
to theik[145] the quire. Spoken of unprofitable persons, who in the English proverb, "rob Peter
to pay Paul."

The king's errand may come the cadger's gate yet. A great man may need the service of a very
mean one.

The maut is aboon the meal. His liquor has done more for him than his meat. The man is drunk.

Mak a kirk and a mill o't. Turn a thing to any purpose you like; or rather, spoken sarcastically,
Take it, and make the best of it.

Like a sow playing on a trump. No image could be well more incongruous than a pig performing
on a Jew's harp.

Mair by luck than gude guiding. His success is due to his fortunate circumstances, rather than
to his own discretion.

He's not a man to ride the water wi'. A common Scottish saying to express you cannot trust
such an one in trying times. May have arisen from the districts where fords abounded, and the
crossing them was dangerous.

He rides on the riggin o' the kirk. The rigging being the top of the roof, the proverb used
to be applied to those who carried their zeal for church matters to the extreme point.

Leal heart never lee'd, well expresses that an honest loyal disposition will scorn, under all
circumstances, to tell a falsehood.

A common Scottish proverb, Let that flee stick to the wa', has an obvious meaning,--"Say nothing
more on that subject." But the derivation is not obvious[146]. In like manner, the meaning
of He that will to Cupar maun to Cupar, is clearly that if a man is obstinate, and bent upon
his own dangerous course, he must take it. But why Cupar? and whether is it the Cupar of Angus
or the Cupar of Fife?

Kindness creeps where it canna gang prettily expresses that where love can do little, it will
do that little, though it cannot do more.

In my part of the country a ridiculous addition used to be made to the common Scottish saying.
Mony a thing's made for the pennie, i.e. Many contrivances are thought of to get money. The
addition is, "As the old woman said when she saw a black man," taking it for granted that he
was an ingenious and curious piece of mechanism made for profit.

Bluid is thicker than water is a proverb which has a marked Scottish aspect, as meant to vindicate
those family predilections to which, as a nation, we are supposed to be rather strongly inclined.

There's aye water where the stirkie[147] drouns. Where certain effects are produced, there
must be some causes at work--a proverb used to show that a universal popular suspicion as to
an obvious effect must be laid in truth.

Better a finger aff than aye waggin'. This proverb I remember as a great favourite with many
Scotch people. Better experience the worst, than have an evil always pending.

Cadgers are aye cracking o' crook saddles[148] has a very Scottish aspect, and signifies that
professional men are very apt to talk too much of their profession.

The following is purely Scotch, for in no country but Scotland are singed sheep heads to be
met with: He's like a sheep head in a pair o' tangs.

As sure's deeth. A common Scottish proverbial expression to signify either the truth or certainty
of a fact, or to pledge the speaker to a performance of his promise. In the latter sense an
amusing illustration of faith in the superior obligation of this asseveration to any other,
is recorded in the Eglinton Papers[149]. The Earl one day found a boy climbing up a tree, and
called him to come down. The boy declined, because, he said, the Earl would thrash him. His
Lordship pledged his honour that he would not do so. The boy replied, "I dinna ken onything
about your honour, but if you say as sure's deeth I'll come doun."

Proverbs are sometimes local in their application.

The men o' the Mearns canna do mair than they may. Even the men of Kincardineshire can only
do their utmost--a proverb intended to be highly complimentary to the powers of the men of
that county.

I'll mak Cathkin's covenant wi' you, Let abee for let abee. This is a local saying quoted often
in Hamilton. The laird of that property had--very unlike the excellent family who have now
possessed it for more than a century--been addicted to intemperance. One of his neighbours,
in order to frighten him on his way home from his evening potations, disguised himself, on
a very wet night, and, personating the devil, claimed a title to carry him off as his rightful
property. Contrary to all expectation, however, the laird showed fight, and was about to commence
the onslaught, when a parley was proposed, and the issue was, "Cathkin's covenant, Let abee
for let abee."

When the castle of Stirling gets a hat, the Carse of Corntown pays for that. This is a local
proverbial saying; the meaning is, that when the clouds descend so low as to envelope Stirling
Castle, a deluge of rain may be expected in the adjacent country.

I will conclude this notice of our proverbial reminiscences, by adding a cluster of Scottish
proverbs, selected from an excellent article on the general subject in the North British Review
of February 1858. The reviewer designates these as "broader in their mirth, and more caustic
in their tone," than the moral proverbial expressions of the Spanish and Italian:--

     A blate[150] cat maks a proud mouse.
     Better a toom[151] house than an ill tenant.
     Jouk[152] and let the jaw[153] gang by.
     Mony ane speirs the gate[154] he kens fu' weel.
     The tod[155] ne'er sped better than when he gaed his ain errand.
     A wilfu' man should be unco wise.
     He that has a meikle nose thinks ilka ane speaks o't.
     He that teaches himsell has a fule for his maister.
     It's an ill cause that the lawyer thinks shame o'.
     Lippen[156] to me, but look to yoursell.
     Mair whistle than woo, as the souter said when shearing the soo.
     Ye gae far about seeking the nearest.
     Ye'll no sell your hen on a rainy day.
     Ye'll mend when ye grow better.
     Ye're nae chicken for a' your cheepin'[157].

I have now adduced quite sufficient specimens to convince those who may not have given attention
to the subject, how much of wisdom, knowledge of life, and good feeling, are contained in these
aphorisms which compose the mass of our Scottish proverbial sayings. No doubt, to many of my
younger readers proverbs are little known, and to all they are becoming more and more matters
of reminiscence. I am quite convinced that much of the old quaint and characteristic Scottish
talk which we are now endeavouring to recall depended on a happy use of those abstracts of
moral sentiment. And this feeling will be confirmed when we call to mind how often those of
the old Scottish school of character, whose conversation we have ourselves admired, had most
largely availed themselves of the use of its proverbial philosophy.

I have already spoken of (p. 16) a Scottish peculiarity--viz. that of naming individuals from
lands which have been possessed long by the family, or frequently from the landed estates which
they acquire. The use of this mode of discriminating individuals in the Highland districts
is sufficiently obvious. Where the inhabitants of a whole country-side are Campbells, or Frasers,
or Gordons, nothing could be more convenient than addressing the individuals of each clan by
the name of his estate. Indeed, some years ago, any other designation, as Mr. Campbell, Mr.
Fraser, would have been resented as an indignity. Their consequence sprang from their possession[158].
But all this is fast wearing away. The estates of old families have often changed hands, and
Highlanders are most unwilling to give the names of old properties to new proprietors. The
custom, however, lingers amongst us, in the northern districts especially. Farms also used
to give their names to the tenants[159]. I can recall an amusing instance of this practice
belonging to my early days. The oldest recollections I have are connected with the name, the
figure, the sayings and doings, of the old cow-herd at Fasque in my father's time; his name
was Boggy, i.e. his ordinary appellation; his true name was Sandy Anderson. But he was called
Boggy from the circumstance of having once held a wretched farm on Deeside named Boggendreep.
He had long left it, and been unfortunate in it, but the name never left him,--he was Boggy
to his grave. The territorial appellation used to be reckoned complimentary, and more respectful
than Mr. or any higher title to which the individual might be entitled. I recollect, in my
brother's time, at Fasque, his showing off some of his home stock to Mr. Williamson, the Aberdeen
butcher. They came to a fine stot, and Sir Alexander said, with some appearance of boast, "I
was offered twenty guineas for that ox." "Indeed, Fasque," said Williamson, "ye should hae
steekit your neive upo' that."

Sir Walter Scott had marked in his diary a territorial greeting of two proprietors which had
amused him much. The laird of Kilspindie had met the laird of Tannachy-Tulloch, and the following
compliments passed between them:--"Yer maist obedient hummil servant, Tannachy-Tulloch." To
which the reply was, "Yer nain man, Kilspindie."

In proportion as we advance towards the Highland district this custom of distinguishing clans
or races, and marking them out according to the district they occupied, became more apparent.
There was the Glengarry country, the Fraser country, the Gordon country, etc. etc. These names
carried also with them certain moral features as characteristic of each division. Hence the
following anecdote:--The morning litany of an old laird of Cultoquhey, when he took his morning
draught at the cauld well, was in these terms:--"Frae the ire o' the Drummonds, the pride o'
the Græmes, the greed o' the Campbells, and the wind o' the Murrays, guid Lord deliver us."

The Duke of Athole, having learned that Cultoquhey was in the habit of mentioning his Grace's
family in such uncomplimentary terms, invited the humorist to Dunkeld, for the purpose of giving
him a hint to desist from the reference. After dinner, the Duke asked his guest what were the
precise terms in which he was in the habit of alluding to his powerful neighbours. Cultoquhey
repeated his liturgy without a moment's hesitation. "I recommend you," said his Grace, looking
very angry, "in future to omit my name from your morning devotions." All he got from Cultoquhey
was, "Thank ye, my Lord Duke," taking off his glass with the utmost sangfroid.

FOOTNOTES:

[49] Stoor is, Scotticé, dust in motion, and has no English synonym; oor is hour. Sir Walter
Scott is said to have advised an artist, in painting a battle, not to deal with details, but
to get up a good stoor: then put in an arm and a sword here and there, and leave all the rest
to the imagination of the spectator.

[50] Reach me a leg of that turkey.

[51] Clearing ashes out of the bars of the grate.

[52] Mentally confused. Muddy when applied to water.

[53] Preface to 4th edition of Mystifications, by Dr. John Brown.

[54] Worse.

[55] Where.

[56] Lord Cockburn's Memorials, p. 58.

[57] Frogs.

[58] Killed.

[59] Miss Jenny Methven.

[60] "Civil," "obliging."--Jamieson.

[61] Dam, the game of draughts.

[62] Brod, the board.

[63] Measles.

[64] Nettle-rash.

[65] The itch.

[66] Whooping-cough.

[67] Mumps.

[68] Toothache.

[69] The Scotticisms are printed in italics.

[70] Delicate in health.

[71] Ailment.

[72] Yawning.

[73] Catching.

[74] Tea-urn

[75] Ver, the spring months.--e.g. "This was in ver quhen wynter tid."--Barbour.

[76] A number.

[77] Young girls.

[78] Gallows birds.

[79] whistling noises.

[80] Distorted gestures.

[81] Honey jar.

[82] A kind of loose gown formerly worn.

[83] Amongst many acts of kindness and essential assistance which I have received and am constantly
receiving from my friend Mr. Hugh James Rollo, I owe my introduction to this interesting Scottish
volume, now, I believe, rather scarce.

[84] Kelly's book is constantly quoted by Jamieson, and is, indeed, an excellent work for the
study of good old Scotch.

[85] This probably throws back the collection to about the middle of the century.

[86] Nurse.

[87] Daw, a slut.

[88] Would.

[89] Forgive.

[90] Going or moving.

[91] Foot.

[92] Always.

[93] If.

[94] Boasters.

[95] Used as cowards(?)

[96] Jest.

[97] A dog's name.

[98] To skail house, to disfurnish.

[99] Being angry or cross.

[100] Judge.

[101] Know not.

[102] Blames.

[103] To aim at.

[104] A stroke.

[105] Full.

[106] Hold.

[107] Potent or strong.

[108] Is angry.

[109] Settle.

[110] Amends.

[111] Comb.

[112] Seldom.

[113] Painfully.

[114] Wool-combers.

[115] Greasy.

[116] Worthless fellow.

[117] Loses.

[118] Sixpenny.

[119] A sort of dagger or hanger which seems to have been used both at meals as a knife and
in broils--

     "And whingers now in friendship bare,
      The social meal to part and share,
      Had found a bloody sheath."

--Lay of the Last Minstrel.

[120] Thong.

[121] No lawsuit.

[122] Robbers.

[123] Rue, to repent.

[124] More.

[125] Maidens.

[126] Hares.

[127] Take after.

[128] Cuckoo.

[129] Note.

[130] Attired.

[131] Curried.

[132] Related.

[133] Outrun.

[134] Tune.

[135] Curtsied.

[136] Fallen.

[137] Surprise.

[138] Christmas.

[139] Pasch or Easter.

[140] Early.

[141] Severe.

[142] The proper orthography of this expression is deoch-an-doruis (or dorais). Deoch, a drink;
an, of the; doruis or dorais, possessive case of dorus or doras a door.

[143] Praise.

[144] Tears.

[145] Thatch.

[146] It has been suggested, and with much reason, that the reference is to a fly sticking
on a wet or a newly painted wall; this is corroborated by the addition in Rob Roy, "When the
dirt's dry, it will rub out," which seems to point out the meaning and derivation of the proverb.

[147] A young bullock.

[148] Saddle for supporting panniers.

[149] Vol. i. p. 134.

[150] Shy.

[151] Empty.

[152] Stoop down.

[153] Wave.

[154] The way.

[155] Fox.

[156] Trust to.

[157] Chirping.

[158] Even in Forfarshire, where Carnegies abound, we had Craigo, Balnamoon, Pitarrow, etc.

[159] This custom is still in use in Galloway; and "Challoch," "Eschonchan," "Tonderghie,"
"Balsalloch," and "Drummorral," etc. etc., appear regularly at kirk and market.

CHAPTER THE SEVENTH.

ON SCOTTISH STORIES OF WIT AND HUMOUR.

The portion of our subject which we proposed under the head of "Reminiscences of Scottish Stories
of Wit or Humour," yet remains to be considered. This is closely connected with the question
of Scottish dialect and expressions; indeed, on some points hardly separable, as the wit, to
a great extent, proceeds from the quaint and picturesque modes of expressing it. But here we
are met by a difficulty. On high authority it has been declared that no such thing as wit exists
amongst us. What has no existence can have no change. We cannot be said to have lost a quality
which we never possessed. Many of my readers are no doubt familiar with what Sydney Smith declared
on this point, and certainly on the question of wit he must be considered an authority. He
used to say (I am almost ashamed to repeat it), "It requires a surgical operation to get a
joke well into a Scotch understanding. Their only idea of wit, which prevails occasionally
in the north, and which, under the name of WUT, is so infinitely distressing to people of good
taste, is laughing immoderately at stated intervals." Strange language to use of a country
which has produced Smollett, Burns, Scott, Galt, and Wilson--all remarkable for the humour
diffused through their writings! Indeed, we may fairly ask, have they equals in this respect
amongst English writers? Charles Lamb had the same notion, or, I should rather say, the same
prejudice, about Scottish people not being accessible to wit; and he tells a story of what
happened to himself, in corroboration of the opinion. He had been asked to a party, and one
object of the invitation had been to meet a son of Burns. When he arrived, Mr. Burns had not
made his appearance, and in the course of conversation regarding the family of the poet, Lamb,
in his lack-a-daisical kind of manner, said, "I wish it had been the father instead of the
son;" upon which four Scotsmen present with one voice exclaimed, "That's impossible, for he's
dead[160]." Now, there will be dull men and matter-of-fact men everywhere, who do not take
a joke, or enter into a jocular allusion; but surely, as a general remark, this is far from
being a natural quality of our country. Sydney Smith and Charles Lamb say so. But, at the risk
of being considered presumptuous, I will say I think them entirely mistaken. I should say that
there was, on the contrary, a strong connection between the Scottish temperament and, call
it if you like, humour, if it is not wit. And what is the difference? My readers need not be
afraid that they are to be led through a labyrinth of metaphysical distinctions between wit
and humour. I have read Dr. Campbell's dissertation on the difference, in his Philosophy of
Rhetoric; I have read Sydney Smith's own two lectures; but I confess I am not much the wiser.
Professors of rhetoric, no doubt, must have such discussions; but when you wish to be amused
by the thing itself, it is somewhat disappointing to be presented with metaphysical analysis.
It is like instituting an examination of the glass and cork of a champagne bottle, and a chemical
testing of the wine. In the very process the volatile and sparkling draught which was to delight
the palate has become like ditch water, vapid and dead. What I mean is, that, call it wit or
humour, or what you please, there is a school of Scottish pleasantry, amusing and characteristic
beyond all other.

Or we may think of the delight it gave the good Mr. Balwhidder, when he tells, in his Annals
of the Parish, of some such story, that it was a "jocosity that was just a kittle to hear."
When I speak of changes in such Scottish humour which have taken place, I refer to a particular
sort of humour, and I speak of the sort of feeling that belongs to Scottish pleasantry,--which
is sly, and cheery, and pawky. It is undoubtedly a humour that depends a good deal upon the
vehicle in which the story is conveyed. If, as we have said, our quaint dialect is passing
away, and our national eccentric points of character, we must expect to find much of the peculiar
humour allied with them to have passed away also. In other departments of wit and repartee,
and acute hits at men and things, Scotsmen (whatever Sydney Smith may have said to the contrary)
are equal to their neighbours, and, so far as I know, may have gained rather than lost. But
this peculiar humour of which I now speak has not, in our day, the scope and development which
were permitted to it by the former generation. Where the tendency exists, the exercise of it
is kept down by the usages and feelings of society. For examples of it (in its full force at
any rate) we must go back to a race who are departed. One remark, however, has occurred to
me in regard to the specimens we have of this kind of humour--viz. that they do not always
proceed from the personal wit or cleverness of any of the individuals concerned in them. The
amusement comes from the circumstances, from the concurrence or combination of the ideas, and
in many cases from the mere expressions which describe the facts. The humour of the narrative
is unquestionable, and yet no one has tried to be humorous. In short, it is the Scottishness
that gives the zest. The same ideas differently expounded might have no point at all. There
is, for example, something highly original in the notions of celestial mechanics entertained
by an honest Scottish Fife lass regarding the theory of comets. Having occasion to go out after
dark, and having observed the brilliant comet then visible (1858), she ran in with breathless
haste to the house, calling on her fellow-servants to "Come oot and see a new star that hasna
got its tail cuttit aff yet!" Exquisite astronomical speculation! Stars, like puppies, are
born with tails, and in due time have them docked. Take an example of a story where there is
no display of any one's wit or humour, and yet it is a good story, and one can't exactly say
why:--An English traveller had gone on a fine Highland road so long, without having seen an
indication of fellow-travellers, that he became astonished at the solitude of the country;
and no doubt before the Highlands were so much frequented as they are in our time, the roads
sometimes bore a very striking aspect of solitariness. Our traveller, at last coming up to
an old man breaking stones, asked him if there was any traffic on this road--was it at all
frequented? "Ay," he said, coolly, "it's no ill at that; there was a cadger body yestreen,
and there's yoursell the day." No English version of the story could have half such amusement,
or have so quaint a character. An answer even still more characteristic is recorded to have
been given by a countryman to a traveller. Being doubtful of his way, he inquired if he were
on the right road to Dunkeld. With some of his national inquisitiveness about strangers, the
countryman asked his inquirer where he came from. Offended at the liberty, as he considered
it, he sharply reminded the man that where he came from was nothing to him; but all the answer
he got was the quiet rejoinder, "Indeed, it's just as little to me whar ye're gaen." A friend
has told me of an answer highly characteristic of this dry and unconcerned quality which he
heard given to a fellow-traveller. A gentleman sitting opposite to him in the stage-coach at
Berwick complained bitterly that the cushion on which he sat was quite wet. On looking up to
the roof he saw a hole through which the rain descended copiously, and at once accounted for
the mischief. He called for the coachman, and in great wrath reproached him with the evil under
which he suffered, and pointed to the hole which was the cause of it. All the satisfaction,
however, that he got was the quiet unmoved reply, "Ay, mony a ane has complained o' that hole."
Another anecdote I heard from a gentleman who vouched for the truth, which is just a case where
the narrative has its humour not from the wit which is displayed but from that dry matter-of-fact
view of things peculiar to some of our countrymen. The friend of my informant was walking in
a street of Perth, when, to his horror, he saw a workman fall from a roof where he was mending
slates, right upon the pavement. By extraordinary good fortune he was not killed, and on the
gentleman going up to his assistance, and exclaiming, with much excitement, "God bless me,
are you much hurt?" all the answer he got was the cool rejoinder, "On the contrary, sir." A
similar matter-of fact answer was made by one of the old race of Montrose humorists. He was
coming out of church, and in the press of the kirk skailing, a young man thoughtlessly trod
on the old gentleman's toe, which was tender with corns. He hastened to apologise, saying,
"I am very sorry, sir; I beg your pardon." The only acknowledgment of which was the dry answer,
"And ye've as muckle need, sir." An old man marrying a very young wife, his friends rallied
him on the inequality of their ages. "She will be near me," he replied, "to close my een."
"Weel," remarked another of the party, "I've had twa wives, and they opened my een."

One of the best specimens of cool Scottish matter-of-fact view of things has been supplied
by a kind correspondent, who narrates it from his own personal recollection.

The back windows of the house where he was brought up looked upon the Greyfriars Church that
was burnt down. On the Sunday morning in which that event took place, as they were all preparing
to go to church, the flames began to burst forth; the young people screamed from the back part
of the house, "A fire! A fire!" and all was in a state of confusion and alarm. The housemaid
was not at home, it being her turn for the Sunday "out." Kitty, the cook, was taking her place,
and performing her duties. The old woman was always very particular on the subject of her responsibility
on such occasions, and came panting and hobbling up stairs from the lower regions, and exclaimed,
"Oh, what is't, what is't?" "O Kitty, look here, the Greyfriars Church is on fire!" "Is that
a', Miss? What a fricht ye geed me! I thought ye said the parlour fire was out."

In connection with the subject of Scottish toasts I am supplied by a first-rate Highland authority
of one of the most graceful and crushing replies of a lady to what was intended as a sarcastic
compliment and smart saying at her expense.

About the beginning of the present century the then Campbell of Combie, on Loch Awe side, in
Argyleshire, was a man of extraordinary character, and of great physical strength, and such
swiftness of foot that it is said he could "catch the best tup on the hill." He also looked
upon himself as a "pretty man," though in this he was singular; also, it was more than whispered
that the laird was not remarkable for his principles of honesty. There also lived in the same
district a Miss MacNabb of Bar-a'-Chaistril, a lady who, before she had passed the zenith of
life, had never been remarkable for her beauty--the contrary even had passed into a proverb,
while she was in her teens; but, to counterbalance this defect in external qualities, nature
had endowed her with great benevolence, while she was renowned for her probity. One day the
Laird of Combie, who piqued himself on his bon-mots, was, as frequently happened, a guest of
Miss MacNabb's, and after dinner several toasts had gone round as usual, Combie rose with great
solemnity and addressing the lady of the house requested an especial bumper, insisting on all
the guests to fill to the brim. He then rose and said, addressing himself to Miss MacNabb,
"I propose the old Scottish toast of 'Honest men and bonnie lassies,'" and bowing to the hostess,
he resumed his seat. The lady returned his bow with her usual amiable smile, and taking up
her glass, replied, "Weel, Combie, I am sure we may drink that, for it will neither apply to
you nor me."

An amusing example of a quiet cool view of a pecuniary transaction happened to my father whilst
doing the business of the rent-day. He was receiving sums of money from the tenants in succession.
After looking over a bundle of notes which he had just received from one of them, a well-known
character, he said in banter, "James, the notes are not correct." To which the farmer, who
was much of a humorist, drily answered, "I dinna ken what they may be noo; but they were a'
richt afore ye had your fingers in amang 'em." An English farmer would hardly have spoken thus
to his landlord. The Duke of Buccleuch told me an answer very quaintly Scotch, given to his
grandmother by a farmer of the old school. A dinner was given to some tenantry of the vast
estates of the family, in the time of Duke Henry. His Duchess (the last descendant of the Dukes
of Montague) always appeared at table on such occasions, and did the honours with that mixture
of dignity and of affable kindness for which she was so remarkable. Abundant hospitality was
shown to all the guests. The Duchess, having observed one of the tenants supplied with boiled
beef from a noble round, proposed that he should add a supply of cabbage: on his declining,
the Duchess good-humouredly remarked, "Why, boiled beef and 'greens' seem so naturally to go
together, I wonder you don't take it." To which the honest farmer objected, "Ah, but your Grace
maun alloo it's a vary windy vegetable," in delicate allusion to the flatulent quality of the
esculent. Similar to this was the naïve answer of a farmer on the occasion of a rent-day. The
lady of the house asked him if he would take some "rhubarb-tart," to which he innocently answered,
"Thank ye, mem, I dinna need it."

A Highland minister, dining with the patroness of his parish, ventured to say, "I'll thank
your leddyship for a little more of that apple-tart;" "It's not apple-tart, it's rhubarb,"
replied the lady. "Rhubarb!" repeated the other, with a look of surprise and alarm, and immediately
called out to the attendant, "Freend, I'll thank you for a dram."

A characteristic table anecdote I can recall amongst Deeside reminiscences. My aunt, Mrs. Forbes,
had entertained an honest Scotch farmer at Banchory Lodge; a draught of ale had been offered
to him, which he had quickly despatched. My aunt observing that the glass had no head or effervescence,
observed, that she feared it had not been a good bottle, "Oh, vera gude, maam, it's just some
strong o' the aaple," an expression which indicates the beer to be somewhat sharp or pungent.
It turned out to have been a bottle of vinegar decanted by mistake.

An amusing instance of an old Scottish farmer being unacquainted with table refinements occurred
at a tenant's dinner in the north. The servant had put down beside him a dessert spoon when
he had been helped to pudding. This seemed quite superfluous to the honest man, who exclaimed,
"Tak' it awa, my man; my mou's as big for puddin' as it is for kail." "girdle" being in the
north the name for the iron plate hung over the fire for baking oat cakes or bannocks.

To a distinguished member of the Church of Scotland I am indebted for an excellent story of
quaint child humour, which he had from the lips of an old woman who related the story of herself:--When
a girl of eight years of age she was taken by her grandmother to church. The parish minister
was not only a long preacher, but, as the custom was, delivered two sermons on the Sabbath
day without any interval, and thus saved the parishioners the two journeys to church. Elizabeth
was sufficiently wearied before the close of the first discourse; but when, after singing and
prayer, the good minister opened the Bible, read a second text, and prepared to give a second
sermon, the young girl, being both tired and hungry, lost all patience, and cried out to her
grandmother, to the no small amusement of those who were so near as to hear her, "Come awa,
granny, and gang hame; this is a lang grace, and nae meat."

The Rev. Mr. Agnew has kindly sent me an anecdote which supplies an example of cleverness in
a Scottish boy, and which rivals, as he observes, the smartness of the London boy, termed by
Punch the "Street boy." It has also a touch of quiet, sly Scottish humour. A gentleman, editor
of a Glasgow paper, well known as a bon-vivant and epicure, and by no means a popular character,
was returning one day from his office, and met near his own house a boy carrying a splendid
salmon. The gentleman looked at it with longing eyes, and addressed the boy--"Where are you
taking that salmon, my boy?" Boy--"Do you ken gin ae Mr. ---- (giving the gentleman's name)
lives hereabout?" Mr. ---- "Yes, oh yes; his house is here just by." Boy (looking sly)--"Weel,
it's no for him." Of this same Scottish boy cleverness, the Rev. Mr. M'Lure of Marykirk kindly
supplies a capital specimen, in an instance which occurred at what is called the market, at
Fettercairn, where there is always a hiring of servants. A boy was asked by a farmer if he
wished to be engaged. "Ou ay," said the youth. "Wha was your last maister?" was the next question.
"Oh, yonder him," said the boy; and then agreeing to wait where he was standing with some other
servants till the inquirer should return from examination of the boy's late employer. The farmer
returned and accosted the boy, "Weel, lathie, I've been speerin' about ye, an' I'm tae tak
ye." "Ou ay," was the prompt reply, "an' I've been speerin' about ye tae, an' I'm nae gaen."

We could not have had a better specimen of the cool self-sufficiency of these young domestics
of the Scottish type than the following:--I heard of a boy making a very cool and determined
exit from the house into which he had very lately been introduced. He had been told that he
should be dismissed if he broke any of the china that was under his charge. On the morning
of a great dinner-party he was entrusted (rather rashly) with a great load of plates, which
he was to carry up-stairs from the kitchen to the dining-room, and which were piled up, and
rested upon his two hands. In going up-stairs his foot slipped, and the plates were broken
to atoms. He at once went up to the drawing-room, put his head in at the door, and shouted:
"The plates are a' smashed, and I'm awa."

A facetious and acute friend, who rather leans to the Sydney Smith view of Scottish wit, declares
that all our humorous stories are about lairds, and lairds that are drunk. Of such stories
there are certainly not a few. The following is one of the best belonging to my part of the
country, and to many persons I should perhaps apologise for introducing it at all. The story
has been told of various parties and localities, but no doubt the genuine laird was a laird
of Balnamoon (pronounced in the country Bonnymoon), and that the locality was a wild tract
of land, not far from his place, called Munrimmon Moor. Balnamoon had been dining out in the
neighbourhood, where, by mistake, they had put down to him after dinner cherry brandy, instead
of port wine, his usual beverage. The rich flavour and strength so pleased him that, having
tasted it, he would have nothing else. On rising from table, therefore, the laird would be
more affected by his drink than if he had taken his ordinary allowance of port. His servant
Harry or Hairy was to drive him home in a gig, or whisky as it was called, the usual open carriage
of the time. On crossing the moor, however, whether from greater exposure to the blast, or
from the laird's unsteadiness of head, his hat and wig came off and fell upon the ground. Harry
got out to pick them up and restore them to his master. The laird was satisfied with the hat,
but demurred at the wig. "It's no my wig, Hairy, lad; it's no my wig," and refused to have
anything to do with it. Hairy lost his patience, and, anxious to get home, remonstrated with
his master, "Ye'd better tak it, sir, for there's nae waile[161] o' wigs on Munrimmon Moor."
The humour of the argument is exquisite, putting to the laird in his unreasonable objection
the sly insinuation that in such a locality, if he did not take this wig, he was not likely
to find another. Then, what a rich expression, "waile o' wigs." In English what is it? "A choice
of perukes;" which is nothing comparable to the "waile o' wigs." I ought to mention also an
amusing sequel to the story, viz. in what happened after the affair of the wig had been settled,
and the laird had consented to return home. When the whisky drove up to the door, Hairy, sitting
in front, told the servant who came "to tak out the laird." No laird was to be seen; and it
appeared that he had fallen out on the moor without Hairy observing it. Of course, they went
back, and, picking him up, brought him safe home. A neighbouring laird having called a few
days after, and having referred to the accident, Balnamoon quietly added, "Indeed, I maun hae
a lume[162] that'll haud in."

The laird of Balnamoon was a truly eccentric character. He joined with his drinking propensities
a great zeal for the Episcopal church, the service of which he read to his own family with
much solemnity and earnestness of manner. Two gentlemen, one of them a stranger to the country,
having called pretty early one Sunday morning, Balnamoon invited them to dinner, and as they
accepted the invitation, they remained and joined in the forenoon devotional exercises conducted
by Balnamoon himself. The stranger was much impressed with the laird's performance of the service,
and during a walk which they took before dinner, mentioned to his friend how highly he esteemed
the religious deportment of their host. The gentleman said nothing, but smiled to himself at
the scene which he anticipated was to follow. After dinner, Balnamoon set himself, according
to the custom of old hospitable Scottish hosts, to make his guests as drunk as possible. The
result was, that the party spent the evening in a riotous debauch, and were carried to bed
by the servants at a late hour. Next day, when they had taken leave and left the house, the
gentleman who had introduced his friend asked him what he thought of their entertainer--"Why,
really," he replied, with evident astonishment, "sic a speat o' praying, and sic a speat o'
drinking, I never knew in the whole course o' my life."

Lady Dalhousie, mother, I mean, of the late distinguished Marquis of Dalhousie, used to tell
a characteristic anecdote of her day. But here, on mention of the name Christian, Countess
of Dalhousie, may I pause a moment to recall the memory of one who was a very remarkable person.
She was for many years, to me and mine, a sincere, and true and valuable friend. By an awful
dispensation of God's providence her death happened instantaneously under my roof in 1839.
Lady Dalhousie was eminently distinguished for a fund of the most varied knowledge, for a clear
and powerful judgment, for acute observation, a kind heart, a brilliant wit. Her story was
thus:--A Scottish judge, somewhat in the predicament of the Laird of Balnamoon, had dined at
Coalstoun with her father Charles Brown, an advocate, and son of George Brown, who sat in the
Supreme Court as a judge with the title of Lord Coalstoun. The party had been convivial, as
we know parties of the highest legal characters often were in those days. When breaking up
and going to the drawing-room, one of them, not seeing his way very clearly, stepped out of
the dining-room window, which was open to the summer air. The ground at Coalstoun sloping off
from the house behind, the worthy judge got a great fall, and rolled down the bank. He contrived,
however, as tipsy men generally do, to regain his legs, and was able to reach the drawing-room.
The first remark he made was an innocent remonstrance with his friend the host, "Od, Charlie
Brown, what gars ye hae sic lang steps to your front door?"

On Deeside, where many original stories had their origin, I recollect hearing several of an
excellent and worthy, but very simple-minded man, the Laird of Craigmyle. On one occasion,
when the beautiful and clever Jane, Duchess of Gordon, was scouring through the country, intent
upon some of those electioneering schemes which often occupied her fertile imagination and
active energies, she came to call at Craigmyle, and having heard that the laird was making
bricks on the property, for the purpose of building a new garden wall, with her usual tact
she opened the subject, and kindly asked, "Well, Mr. Gordon, and how do your bricks come on?"
Good Craigmyle's thoughts were much occupied with a new leather portion of his dress, which
had been lately constructed, so, looking down on his nether garments, he said in pure Aberdeen
dialect, "Muckle obleeged to yer Grace, the breeks war sum ticht at first, but they are deeing
weel eneuch noo."

The last Laird of Macnab, before the clan finally broke up and emigrated to Canada, was a well-known
character in the country, and being poor, used to ride about on a most wretched horse, which
gave occasion to many jibes at his expense. The laird was in the constant habit of riding up
from the country to attend the Musselburgh races. A young wit, by way of playing him off on
the race-course, asked him, in a contemptuous tone, "Is that the same horse you had last year,
laird?" "Na," said the laird, brandishing his whip in the interrogator's face in so emphatic
a manner as to preclude further questioning, "na; but it's the same whup." In those days, as
might be expected, people were not nice in expressions of their dislike of persons and measures.
If there be not more charity in society than of old, there is certainly more courtesy. I have,
from a friend, an anecdote illustrative of this remark, in regard to feelings exercised towards
an unpopular laird. In the neighbourhood of Banff, in Forfarshire, the seat of a very ancient
branch of the Ramsays, lived a proprietor who bore the appellation of Corb, from the name of
his estate. This family has passed away, and its property merged in Banff. The laird was intensely
disliked in the neighbourhood. Sir George Ramsay was, on the other hand, universally popular
and respected. On one occasion, Sir George, in passing a morass in his own neighbourhood, had
missed the road and fallen into a bog to an alarming depth. To his great relief, he saw a passenger
coming along the path, which was at no great distance. He called loudly for his help, but the
man took no notice. Poor Sir George felt himself sinking, and redoubled his cries for assistance;
all at once the passenger rushed forward, carefully extricated him from his perilous position,
and politely apologised for his first neglect of his appeal, adding, as his reason, "Indeed,
Sir George, I thought it was Corb!" evidently meaning that had it been Corb, he must have taken
his chance for him.

In Lanarkshire there lived a sma' sma' laird named Hamilton, who was noted for his eccentricity.
On one occasion, a neighbour waited on him, and requested his name as an accommodation to a
"bit bill" for twenty pounds at three months' date, which led to the following characteristic
and truly Scottish colloquy:--"Na, na, I canna do that." "What for no, laird? ye hae dune the
same thing for ithers." "Ay, ay, Tammas, but there's wheels within wheels ye ken naething about;
I canna do't." "It's a sma' affair to refuse me, laird." "Weel, ye see, Tammas, if I was to
pit my name till't, ye wad get the siller frae the bank, and when the time came round, ye wadna
be ready, and I wad hae to pay't; sae then you and me wad quarrel; sae we may just as weel
quarrel the noo, as lang's the siller's in ma pouch." On one occasion, Hamilton having business
with the late Duke of Hamilton at Hamilton Palace, the Duke politely asked him to lunch. A
liveried servant waited upon them, and was most assiduous in his attentions to the Duke and
his guest. At last our eccentric friend lost patience, and looking at the servant, addressed
him thus, "What the deil for are ye dance, dancing, about the room that gait? can ye no draw
in your chair and sit down? I'm sure there's plenty on the table for three."

As a specimen of the old-fashioned Laird, now become a Reminiscence, who adhered pertinaciously
to old Scottish usages, and to the old Scottish dialect, I cannot, I am sure, adduce a better
specimen than Mr. Fergusson of Pitfour, to whose servant I have already referred. He was always
called Pitfour, from the name of his property in Aberdeenshire. He must have died fifty years
ago. He was for many years M.P. for the county of Aberdeen, and I have reason to believe that
he made the enlightened parliamentary declaration which has been given to others: He said "he
had often heard speeches in the House, which had changed his opinion, but none that had ever
changed his vote." I recollect hearing of his dining in London sixty years ago, at the house
of a Scottish friend, where there was a swell party, and Pitfour was introduced as a great
northern proprietor, and county M.P. A fashionable lady patronised him graciously, and took
great charge of him, and asked him about his estates. Pitfour was very dry and sparing in his
communications, as for example, "What does your home farm chiefly produce, Mr. Fergusson?"
Answer, "Girss." "I beg your pardon, Mr. Fergusson, what does your home farm produce?" All
she could extract was, "Girss."

Of another laird, whom I heard often spoken of in old times, an anecdote was told strongly
Scottish. Our friend had much difficulty (as many worthy lairds have had) in meeting the claims
of those two woeful periods of the year called with us in Scotland the "tarmes." He had been
employing for some time as workman a stranger from the south on some house repairs, of the
not uncommon name in England of Christmas. His servant early one morning called out at the
laird's door in great excitement that "Christmas had run away, and nobody knew where he had
gone." He coolly turned in his bed with the ejaculation, "I only wish he had taken Whitsunday
and Martinmas along with him." I do not know a better illustration of quiet, shrewd, and acute
Scottish humour than the following little story, which an esteemed correspondent mentions having
heard from his father when a boy, relating to a former Duke of Athole, who had no family of
his own, and whom he mentions as having remembered very well:--He met, one morning, one of
his cottars or gardeners, whose wife he knew to be in the hopeful way. Asking him "how Marget
was the day," the man replied that she had that morning given him twins. Upon which the Duke
said,--"Weel, Donald; ye ken the Almighty never sends bairns without the meat." "That may be,
your Grace," said Donald; "but whiles I think that Providence maks a mistak in thae matters,
and sends the bairns to ae hoose and the meat to anither!" The Duke took the hint, and sent
him a cow with calf the following morning.

I have heard of an amusing scene between a laird, noted for his meanness, and a wandering sort
of Edie Ochiltree, a well-known itinerant who lived by his wits and what he could pick up in
his rounds amongst the houses through the country. The laird, having seen the beggar sit down
near his gate to examine the contents of his pock or wallet, conjectured that he had come from
his house, and so drew near to see what he had carried off. As the laird was keenly investigating
the mendicant's spoils, his quick eye detected some bones on which there remained more meat
than should have been allowed to leave his kitchen. Accordingly he pounced upon the bones,
declaring he had been robbed, and insisted on the beggar returning to the house and giving
back the spoil. He was, however, prepared for the attack, and sturdily defended his property,
boldly asserting, "Na, na, laird, thae are no Tod-brae banes; they are Inch-byre banes, and
nane o' your honour's"--meaning that he had received these bones at the house of a neighbour
of a more liberal character. The beggar's professional discrimination between the merits of
the bones of the two mansions, and his pertinacious defence of his own property, would have
been most amusing to a bystander.

I have, however, a reverse story, in which the beggar is quietly silenced by the proprietor.
A noble lord, some generations back, well known for his frugal habits, had just picked up a
small copper coin in his own avenue, and had been observed by one of the itinerating mendicant
race, who, grudging the transfer of the piece into the peer's pocket, exclaimed, "O, gie't
to me, my lord;" to which the quiet answer was, "Na, na; fin' a fardin' for yersell, puir body."

There are always pointed anecdotes against houses wanting in a liberal and hospitable expenditure
in Scotland. Thus, we have heard of a master leaving such a mansion, and taxing his servant
with being drunk, which he had too often been after other country visits. On this occasion,
however, he was innocent of the charge, for he had not the opportunity to transgress. So, when
his master asserted, "Jemmy, you are drunk!" Jemmy very quietly answered, "Indeed, sir, I wish
I wur." At another mansion, notorious for scanty fare, a gentleman was inquiring of the gardener
about a dog which some time ago he had given to the laird. The gardener showed him a lank greyhound,
on which the gentleman said, "No, no; the dog I gave your master was a mastiff, not a greyhound;"
to which the gardener quietly answered, "Indeed, ony dog micht sune become a greyhound by stopping
here."

From a friend and relative, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland, I used to hear
many characteristic stories. He had a curious vein of this sort of humour in himself, besides
what he brought out from others. One of his peculiarities was a mortal antipathy to the whole
French nation, whom he frequently abused in no measured terms. At the same time he had great
relish of a glass of claret, which he considered the prince of all social beverages. So he
usually finished off his antigallican tirades, with the reservation, "But the bodies brew the
braw drink." He lived amongst his own people, and knew well the habits and peculiarities of
a race gone by. He had many stories connected with the pastoral relation between minister and
people, and all such stories are curious, not merely for their amusement, but from the illustration
they afford us of that peculiar Scottish humour which we are now describing. He had himself,
when a very young boy, before he came up to the Edinburgh High School, been at the parochial
school where he resided, and which, like many others, at that period, had a considerable reputation
for the skill and scholarship of the master. He used to describe school scenes rather different,
I suspect, from school scenes in our day. One boy, on coming late, explained that the cause
had been a regular pitched battle between his parents, with the details of which he amused
his school-fellows; and he described the battle in vivid and Scottish Homeric terms: "And eh,
as they faucht, and they faucht," adding, however, with much complacency, "but my minnie dang,
she did tho'."

There was a style of conversation and quaint modes of expression between ministers and their
people at that time, which, I suppose, would seem strange to the present generation; as, for
example, I recollect a conversation between this relative and one of his parishioners of this
description.--It had been a very wet and unpromising autumn. The minister met a certain Janet
of his flock, and accosted her very kindly. He remarked, "Bad prospect for the har'st (harvest),
Janet, this wet." Janet--"Indeed, sir, I've seen as muckle as that there'll be nae har'st the
year." Minister--"Na, Janet, deil as muckle as that't ever you saw."

As I have said, he was a clergyman of the Established Church, and had many stories about ministers
and people, arising out of his own pastoral experience, or the experience of friends and neighbours.
He was much delighted with the not very refined rebuke which one of his own farmers had given
to a young minister who had for some Sundays occupied his pulpit. The young man had dined with
the farmer in the afternoon when services were over, and his appetite was so sharp, that he
thought it necessary to apologise to his host for eating so substantial a dinner.--"You see,"
he said, "I am always very hungry after preaching." The old gentleman, not much admiring the
youth's pulpit ministrations, having heard this apology two or three times, at last replied
sarcastically, "Indeed, sir, I'm no surprised at it, considering the trash that comes aff your
stamach in the morning."

What I wish to keep in view is, to distinguish anecdotes which are amusing on account merely
of the expressions used, from those which have real wit and humour combined, with the purely
Scottish vehicle in which they are conveyed.

Of this class I could not have a better specimen to commence with than the defence of the liturgy
of his church, by John Skinner of Langside, of whom previous mention has been made. It is witty
and clever.

Being present at a party (I think at Lord Forbes's), where were also several ministers of the
Establishment, the conversation over their wine turned, among other things, on the Prayer Book.
Skinner took no part in it, till one minister remarked to him, "The great faut I hae to your
prayer-book is that ye use the Lord's Prayer sae aften,--ye juist mak a dishclout o't." Skinner's
rejoinder was, "Verra true! Ay, man, we mak a dishclout o't, an' we wring't, an' we wring't,
an' we wring't, an' the bree[163] o't washes a' the lave o' our prayers."

No one, I think, could deny the wit of the two following rejoinders.

A ruling elder of a country parish in the west of Scotland was well known in the district as
a shrewd and ready-witted man. He received many a visit from persons who liked a banter, or
to hear a good joke. Three young students gave him a call in order to have a little amusement
at the elder's expense. On approaching him, one of them saluted him, "Well, Father Abraham,
how are you to-day?" "You are wrong," said the other, "this is old Father Isaac." "Tuts," said
the third, "you are both mistaken; this is old Father Jacob." David looked at the young men,
and in his own way replied, "I am neither old Father Abraham, nor old Father Isaac, nor old
Father Jacob; but I am Saul the son of Kish, seeking his father's asses, and lo! I've found
three o' them."

For many years the Baptist community of Dunfermline was presided over by brothers David Dewar
and James Inglis, the latter of whom has just recently gone to his reward. Brother David was
a plain, honest, straightforward man, who never hesitated to express his convictions, however
unpalatable they might be to others. Being elected a member of the Prison Board, he was called
upon to give his vote in the choice of a chaplain from the licentiates of the Established Kirk.
The party who had gained the confidence of the Board had proved rather an indifferent preacher
in a charge to which he had previously been appointed; and on David being asked to signify
his assent to the choice of the Board, he said, "Weel, I've no objections to the man, for I
understand he has preached a kirk toom (empty) already, and if he be as successful in the jail,
he'll maybe preach it vawcant as weel."

From Mr. Inglis, clerk of the Court of Session, I have the following Scottish rejoinder:--

"I recollect my father relating a conversation between a Perthshire laird and one of his tenants.
The laird's eldest son was rather a simpleton. Laird says, 'I am going to send the young laird
abroad,' 'What for?' asks the tenant; answered, 'To see the world;' tenant replies, 'But, lord-sake,
laird, will no the world see him?'"

An admirably humorous reply is recorded of a Scotch officer, well known and esteemed in his
day for mirth and humour. Captain Innes of the Guards (usually called Jock Innes by his contemporaries)
was with others getting ready for Flushing or some of those expeditions of the beginning of
the great war. His commanding officer (Lord Huntly, my correspondent thinks) remonstrated about
the badness of his hat, and recommended a new one--"Na, na! bide a wee," said Jock; "where
we're gain' faith there'll soon be mair hats nor heads."

I recollect being much amused with a Scottish reference of this kind in the heart of London.
Many years ago a Scotch party had dined at Simpson's famous beef-steak house in the Strand.
On coming away some of the party could not find their hats, and my uncle was jocularly asking
the waiter, whom he knew to be a Deeside man, "Whar are our bonnets, Jeems?" To which he replied,
"'Deed, I mind the day when I had neither hat nor bonnet."

There is an odd and original way of putting a matter sometimes in Scotch people, which is irresistibly
comic, although by the persons nothing comic is intended; as for example, when in 1786 Edinburgh
was illuminated on account of the recovery of George III. from severe illness. In a house where
great preparation was going on for the occasion, by getting the candles fixed in tin sconces,
an old nurse of the family, looking on, exclaimed, "Ay, it's a braw time for the cannel-makers
when the king is sick, honest man!"

Scottish farmers of the old school were a shrewd and humorous race, sometimes not indisposed
to look with a little jealousy upon their younger brethren, who, on their part, perhaps, showed
their contempt for the old-fashioned ways. I take the following example from the columns of
the Peterhead Sentinel, just as it appeared--June 14, 1861:--

"AN ANECDOTE FOR DEAN EAMSAY.--The following characteristic and amusing anecdote was communicated
to us the other day by a gentleman who happened to be a party to the conversation detailed
below. This gentleman was passing along a road not a hundred miles from Peterhead one day this
week. Two different farms skirt the separate sides of the turnpike, one of which is rented
by a farmer who cultivates his land according to the most advanced system of agriculture, and
the other of which is farmed by a gentleman of the old school. Our informant met the latter
worthy at the side of the turnpike opposite his neighbour's farm, and seeing a fine crop of
wheat upon what appeared to be [and really was] very thin and poor land, asked, 'When was that
wheat sown?' 'O I dinna ken,' replied the gentleman of the old school, with a sort of half-indifference,
half-contempt. 'But isn't it strange that such a fine crop should be reared on such bad land?'
asked our informant. 'O, na--nae at a'--deevil thank it; a gravesteen wad gie guid bree[164]
gin ye gied it plenty o' butter!'"

But perhaps the best anecdote illustrative of the keen shrewdness of the Scottish farmer is
related by Mr. Boyd[165] in one of his charming series of papers, reprinted from Fraser's Magazine.
"A friend of mine, a country parson, on first going to his parish, resolved to farm his glebe
for himself. A neighbouring farmer kindly offered the parson to plough one of his fields. The
farmer said that he would send his man John with a plough and a pair of horses on a certain
day. 'If ye're goin' about,' said the farmer to the clergyman, 'John will be unco weel pleased
if you speak to him, and say it's a fine day, or the like o' that; but dinna,' said the farmer,
with much solemnity, 'dinna say onything to him about ploughin' and sawin'; for John,' he added,
'is a stupid body, but he has been ploughin' and sawin' a' his life, and he'll see in a minute
that ye ken naething aboot ploughin' and sawin'. And then,' said the sagacious old farmer,
with much earnestness, 'if he comes to think that ye ken naething aboot ploughin' and sawin',
he'll think that ye ken naething aboot onything!'"

The following is rather an original commentary, by a layman, upon clerical incomes:--A relative
of mine going to church with a Forfarshire farmer, one of the old school, asked him the amount
of the minister's stipend. He said, "Od, it's a gude ane--the maist part of £300 a year." "Well,"
said my relative, "many of these Scotch ministers are but poorly off." "They've eneuch, sir,
they've eneuch; if they'd mair, it would want a' their time to the spendin' o't."

Scotch gamekeepers had often much dry quiet humour. I was much amused by the answer of one
of those under the following circumstances:--An Ayrshire gentleman, who was from the first
a very bad shot, or rather no shot at all, when out on 1st of September, having failed, time
after time, in bringing down a single bird, had at last pointed out to him by his attendant
bag-carrier a large covey, thick and close on the stubbles. "Noo, Mr. Jeems, let drive at them,
just as they are!" Mr. Jeems did let drive, as advised, but not a feather remained to testify
the shot. All flew off, safe and sound--"Hech, sir (remarks his friend), but ye've made thae
yins shift their quarters."

The two following anecdotes of rejoinders from Scottish guidwives, and for which I am indebted,
as for many other kind communications, to the Rev. Mr. Blair of Dunblane, appear to me as good
examples of the peculiar Scottish pithy phraseology which we refer to, as any that I have met with.

An old lady from whom the "Great Unknown" had derived many an ancient tale, was waited upon
one day by the author of "Waverley." On his endeavouring to give the authorship the go-by,
the old dame protested, "D'ye think, sir, I dinna ken my ain groats in ither folk's kail[166]?"

A conceited packman called at a farm-house in the west of Scotland, in order to dispose of
some of his wares. The goodwife was offended by his southern accent, and his high talk about
York, London, and other big places. "An' whaur come ye frae yersell?" was the question of the
guidwife. "Ou, I am from the Border." "The Border--oh! I thocht that; for we aye think the
selvidge is the wakest bit o' the wab!"

The following is a good specimen of ready Scotch humorous reply, by a master to his discontented
workman, and in which he turned the tables upon him, in his reference to Scripture. In a town
of one of the central counties a Mr. J---- carried on, about a century ago, a very extensive
business in the linen manufacture. Although strikes were then unknown among the labouring classes,
the spirit from which these take their rise has no doubt at all times existed. Among Mr. J----'s
many workmen, one had given him constant annoyance for years, from his discontented and argumentative
spirit. Insisting one day on getting something or other which his master thought most unreasonable,
and refused to give in to, he at last submitted, with a bad grace, saying, "You're nae better
than Pharaoh, sir, forcin' puir folk to mak' bricks without straw." "Well, Saunders," quietly
rejoined his master, "if I'm nae better than Pharaoh in one respect, I'll be better in another,
for I'll no hinder ye going to the wilderness whenever you choose."

Persons who are curious in Scottish stories of wit and humour speak much of the sayings of
a certain "Laird of Logan," who was a well-known character in the West of Scotland. This same
Laird of Logan was at a meeting of the heritors of Cumnock, where a proposal was made to erect
a new churchyard wall. He met the proposition with the dry remark, "I never big dykes till
the tenants complain." Calling one day for a gill of whisky in a public-house, the Laird was
asked if he would take any water with the spirit. "Na, na," replied he, "I would rather ye
would tak the water out o't."

The laird sold a horse to an Englishman, saying, "You buy him as you see him; but he's an honest
beast." The purchaser took him home. In a few days he stumbled and fell, to the damage of his
own knees and his rider's head. On this the angry purchaser remonstrated with the laird, whose
reply was, "Well, sir, I told ye he was an honest beast; many a time has he threatened to come
down with me, and I kenned he would keep his word some day."

At the time of the threatened invasion, the laird had been taunted at a meeting at Ayr with
want of loyal spirit at Cumnock, as at that place no volunteer corps had been raised to meet
the coming danger; Cumnock, it should be recollected, being on a high situation, and ten or
twelve miles from the coast. "What sort of people are you up at Cumnock?" said an Ayr gentleman;
"you have not a single volunteer!" "Never you heed," says Logan, very quietly; "if the French
land at Ayr, there will soon be plenty of volunteers up at Cumnock."

A pendant to the story of candid admission on the part of the minister, that the people might
be weary after his sermon, has been given on the authority of the narrator, a Fife gentleman,
ninety years of age when he told it. He had been to church at Elie, and listening to a young
and perhaps bombastic preacher, who happened to be officiating for the Rev. Dr. Milligan, who
was in church. After service, meeting the Doctor in the passage, he introduced the young clergyman,
who, on being asked by the old man how he did, elevated his shirt collar, and complained of
fatigue, and being very much "tired." "Tired, did ye say, my man?" said the old satirist, who
was slightly deaf; "Lord, man! if you're half as tired as I am, I pity ye!"

I have been much pleased with an offering from Carluke, containing two very pithy anecdotes.
Mr. Rankin very kindly writes:--"Your 'Reminiscences' are most refreshing. I am very little
of a story-collector, but I have recorded some of an old schoolmaster, who was a story-teller.
As a sort of payment for the amusement I have derived from your book, I shall give one or two."

He sends the two following:--

"Shortly after Mr. Kay had been inducted schoolmaster of Carluke (1790), the bederal called
at the school, verbally announcing, proclamation-ways, that Mrs. So-and-So's funeral would
be on Fuirsday. 'At what hour?' asked the dominie. 'Ou, ony time atween ten and twa.' At two
o'clock of the day fixed, Mr. Kay--quite a stranger to the customs of the district--arrived
at the place, and was astonished to find a crowd of men and lads, standing here and there,
some smoking, and all arglebargling[167] as if at the end of a fair. He was instantly, but
mysteriously, approached, and touched on the arm by a red-faced bareheaded man, who seemed
to be in authority, and was beckoned to follow. On entering the barn, which was seated all
round, he found numbers sitting, each with the head bent down, and each with his hat between
his knees--all gravity and silence. Anon a voice was heard issuing from the far end, and a
long prayer was uttered. They had worked at this--what was called 'a service'--during three
previous hours, one party succeeding another, and many taking advantage of every service, which
consisted of a prayer by way of grace, a glass of white wine, a glass of red wine, a glass
of rum, and a prayer by way of thanksgiving. After the long invocation, bread and wine passed
round. Silence prevailed. Most partook of both rounds of wine, but when the rum came, many
nodded refusal, and by and by the nodding seemed to be universal, and the trays passed on so
much the more quickly. A sumphish weather-beaten man, with a large flat blue bonnet on his
knee, who had nodded unwittingly, and was about to lose the last chance of a glass of rum,
raised his head, saying, amid the deep silence, 'Od, I daursay I wull tak anither glass,' and
in a sort of vengeful, yet apologetic tone, added, 'The auld jaud yince cheated me wi' a cauve'
(calf)."

At a farmer's funeral in the country, an undertaker was in charge of the ceremonial, and directing
how it was to proceed, when he noticed a little man giving orders, and, as he thought, rather
encroaching upon the duties and privileges of his own office. He asked him, "And wha are ye,
mi' man, that tak sae muckle on ye?" "Oh, dinna ye ken?" said the man, under a strong sense
of his own importance, "I'm the corp's brither[168]?"

Curious scenes took place at funerals where there was, in times gone by, an unfortunate tendency
to join with such solemnities more attention to festal entertainment than was becoming. A farmer,
at the interment of his second wife, exercised a liberal hospitality to his friends at the
inn near the church. On looking over the bill, the master defended the charge as moderate.
But he reminded him, "Ye forget, man, that it's no ilka ane that brings a second funeral to
your house."

"Dr. Scott, minister of Carluke (1770), was a fine graceful kindly man, always stepping about
in his bag-wig and cane in hand, with a kind and ready word to every one. He was officiating
at a bridal in his parish, where there was a goodly company, had partaken of the good cheer,
and waited till the young people were fairly warmed in the dance. A dissenting body had sprung
up in the parish, which he tried to think was beneath him even to notice, when he could help
it, yet never seemed to feel at all keenly when the dissenters were alluded to. One of the
chief leaders of this body was at the bridal, and felt it to be his bounden duty to call upon
the minister for his reasons for sanctioning by his presence so sinful an enjoyment. 'Weel,
minister, what think ye o' this dancin'?' 'Why, John,' said the minister, blithely, 'I think
it an excellent exercise for young people, and, I dare say, so do you.' 'Ah, sir, I'm no sure
about it; I see nae authority for't in the Scriptures.' 'Umph, indeed, John; you cannot forget
David.' 'Ah, sir, Dauvid; gif they were a' to dance as Dauvid did, it would be a different
thing a'thegither.' 'Hoot-o-fie, hoot-o-fie, John; would you have the young folk strip to the
sark?'"

Reference has been made to the eccentric laird of Balnamoon, his wig, and his "speats o' drinking
and praying." A story of this laird is recorded, which I do think is well named, by a correspondent
who communicates it, as a "quintessential phasis of dry Scotch humour," and the explanation
of which would perhaps be thrown away upon any one who needed the explanation. The story is
this:--The laird riding past a high steep bank, stopped opposite a hole in it, and said, "Hairy,
I saw a brock gang in there." "Did ye?" said Hairy; "wull ye hand my horse, sir?" "Certainly,"
said the laird, and away rushed Hairy for a spade. After digging for half-an-hour, he came
back, quite done, to the laird, who had regarded him musingly. "I canna find him, sir," said
Hairy. "'Deed," said the laird, very coolly, "I wad ha' wondered if ye had, for it's ten years
sin' I saw him gang in there."

Amongst many humorous colloquies between Balnamoon and his servant, the following must have
been very racy and very original. The laird, accompanied by Hairy, after a dinner party, was
riding on his way home, through a ford, when he fell off into the water. "Whae's that faun?"
he inquired. "'Deed," quoth Hairy, "I witna an it be na your honour."

There is a peculiarity connected with what we have considered Scotch humour. It is more common
for Scotsmen to associate their own feelings with national events and national history than
for Englishmen. Take as illustrations the following, as being perhaps as good as any:--The
Rev. Robert Scott, a Scotsman who forgets not Scotland in his southern vicarage, and whom I
have named before as having sent me some good reminiscences, tells me that, at Inverary, some
thirty years ago, he could not help overhearing the conversation of some Lowland cattle-dealers
in the public room in which he was. The subject of the bravery of our navy being started, one
of the interlocutors expressed his surprise that Nelson should have issued his signal at Trafalgar
in the terms, "England expects," etc. He was met with the answer (which seemed highly satisfactory
to the rest), "Ah, Nelson only said 'expects' of the English; he said naething of Scotland,
for he kent the Scotch would do theirs."

I am assured the following manifestation of national feeling against the memory of a Scottish
character actually took place within a few years:--Williamson (the Duke of Buccleuch's huntsman)
was one afternoon riding home from hunting through Haddington; and as he passed the old Abbey,
he saw an ancient woman looking through the iron grating in front of the burial-place of the
Lauderdale family, holding by the bars, and grinning and dancing with rage. "Eh, gudewife,"
said Williamson, "what ails ye?" "It's the Duke o' Lauderdale," cried she. "Eh, if I could
win at him, I wud rax the banes o' him."

To this class belongs the following complacent Scottish remark upon Bannockburn. A splenetic
Englishman said to a Scottish countryman, something of a wag, that no man of taste would think
of remaining any time in such a country as Scotland. To which the canny Scot replied, "Tastes
differ; I'se tak ye to a place no far frae Stirling, whaur thretty thousand o' your countrymen
ha' been for five hunder years, and they've nae thocht o' leavin' yet."

In a similar spirit, an honest Scotch farmer, who had sent some sheep to compete at a great
English agricultural cattle-show, and was much disgusted at not getting a prize, consoled himself
for the disappointment, by insinuating that the judges could hardly act quite impartially by
a Scottish competitor, complacently remarking, "It's aye been the same since Bannockburn."

Then, again, take the story told in Lockhart's Life of Sir Walter Scott, of the blacksmith
whom Sir Walter had formerly known as a horse-doctor, and whom he found at a small country
town south of the Border, practising medicine with a reckless use of "laudamy and calomy[169],"
apologising at the same time for the mischief he might do, by the assurance that it "would
be lang before it made up for Flodden." How graphically it describes the interest felt by Scotchmen
of his rank in the incidents of their national history. A similar example has been recorded
in connection with Bannockburn. Two Englishmen visited the field of that great battle, and
a country blacksmith pointed out the positions of the two armies, the stone on which was fixed
the Bruce's standard, etc. The gentlemen, pleased with the intelligence of their guide, on
leaving pressed his acceptance of a crown-piece. "Na, na," replied the Scotsman, with much
pride, "it has cost ye eneuch already." Such an example of self-denial on the part of a Scottish
cicerone is, we fear, now rather a "reminiscence."

A north country drover had, however, a more tangible opportunity of gratifying his national
animosity against the Southron, and of which he availed himself. Returning homewards, after
a somewhat unsuccessful journey, and not in very good humour with the Englishers, when passing
through Carlisle he saw a notice stuck up, offering a reward of £50 for any one who would do
a piece of service to the community, by officiating as executioner of the law on a noted criminal
then under sentence of death. Seeing a chance to make up for his bad market, and comforted
with the assurance that he was unknown there, he undertook the office, executed the condemned,
and got the fee. When moving off with the money, he was twitted at as a "mean beggarly Scot,"
doing for money what no Englishman would. With a grin and quiet glee, he only replied, "I'll
hang ye a' at the price."

Some Scotsmen, no doubt, have a very complacent feeling regarding the superiority of their
countrymen, and make no hesitation in proclaiming their opinion. I have always admired the
quaint expression of such belief in a case which has recently been reported to me. A young
Englishman had taken a Scottish shooting-ground, and enjoyed his mountain sport so much as
to imbibe a strong partiality for his northern residence and all its accompaniments. At a German
watering-place he encountered, next year, an original character, a Scotsman of the old school,
very national, and somewhat bigoted in his nationality: he determined to pass himself off to
him as a genuine Scottish native; and, accordingly, he talked of Scotland and haggis, and sheep's
head, and whisky; he boasted of Bannockburn, and admired Queen Mary; looked upon Scott and
Burns as superior to all English writers; and staggered, although he did not convince, the
old gentleman. On going away he took leave of his Scottish friend, and said, "Well, sir, next
time we meet, I hope you will receive me as a real countryman." "Weel," he said, "I'm jest
thinkin', my lad, ye're nae Scotsman; but I'll tell ye what ye are--ye're juist an impruived
Englishman."

I am afraid we must allow that Scottish people have a leetle national vanity, and may be too
ready sometimes to press the claim of their country to an extravagantly assumed pre-eminence
in the annals of genius and celebrities. An extreme case of such pretension I heard of lately,
which is amusing. A Scotsman, in reference to the distinction awarded to Sir Walter Scott,
on occasion of his centenary, had roundly asserted, "But all who have been eminent men were
Scotsmen." An Englishman, offended at such assumption of national pre-eminence, asked indignantly,
"What do you say to Shakspeare?" To which the other quietly replied, "Weel, his tawlent wad
justifee the inference." This is rich, as an example of an à priori argument in favour of a
man being a Scotsman.

We find in the conversation of old people frequent mention of a class of beings well known
in country parishes, now either become commonplace, like the rest of the world, or removed
altogether, and shut up in poorhouses or madhouses--I mean the individuals frequently called
parochial idiots; but who were rather of the order of naturals. They were eccentric, or somewhat
crazy, useless, idle creatures, who used to wander about from house to house, and sometimes
made very shrewd sarcastic remarks upon what was going on in the parish. I heard such a person
once described as one who was "wanting in twopence of change for a shilling." They used to
take great liberty of speech regarding the conduct and disposition of those with whom they
came in contact, and many odd sayings which emanated from them were traditionary in country
localities. I have a kindly feeling towards these imperfectly intelligent, but often perfectly
cunning beings; partly, I believe, from recollections of early associations in boyish days
with some of those Davy Gellatleys. I have therefore preserved several anecdotes with which
I have been favoured, where their odd sayings and indications of a degree of mental activity
have been recorded. These persons seem to have had a partiality for getting near the pulpit
in church, and their presence there was accordingly sometimes annoying to the preacher and
the congregation; as at Maybole, when Dr. Paul, now of St. Cuthbert's, was minister in 1823,
John M'Lymont, an individual of this class, had been in the habit of standing so close to the
pulpit door as to overlook the Bible and pulpit board. When required, however, by the clergyman
to keep at a greater distance, and not look in upon the minister, he got intensely angry and
violent. He threatened the minister,--"Sir, bæby (maybe) I'll come farther;" meaning to intimate
that perhaps he would, if much provoked, come into the pulpit altogether. This, indeed, actually
took place on another occasion, and the tenure of the ministerial position was justified by
an argument of a most amusing nature. The circumstance, I am assured, happened in a parish
in the north. The clergyman, on coming into church, found the pulpit occupied by the parish
natural. The authorities had been unable to remove him without more violence than was seemly,
and therefore waited for the minister to dispossess Tam of the place he had assumed. "Come
down, sir, immediately!" was the peremptory and indignant call; and on Tam being unmoved, it
was repeated with still greater energy. Tam, however, replied, looking down confidentially
from his elevation, "Na, na, minister! juist ye come up wi' me. This is a perverse generation,
and faith they need us baith." It is curious to mark the sort of glimmering of sense, and even
of discriminating thought, displayed by persons of this class. As an example, take a conversation
held by this same John M'Lymont, with Dr. Paul, whom he met some time after. He seemed to have
recovered his good humour, as he stopped him and said, "Sir, I would like to speer a question
at ye on a subject that's troubling me." "Well, Johnnie, what is the question?" To which he
replied, "Sir, is it lawful at ony time to tell a lee?" The minister desired to know what Johnnie
himself thought upon the point. "Weel, sir," said he, "I'll no say but in every case it's wrang
to tell a lee; but," added he, looking archly and giving a knowing wink, "I think there are
waur lees than ithers" "How, Johnnie?" and then he instantly replied, with all the simplicity
of a fool, "To keep down a din, for instance. I'll no say but a man does wrang in telling a
lee to keep down a din, but I'm sure he does not do half sae muckle wrang as a man who tells
a lee to kick up a deevilment o' a din." This opened a question not likely to occur to such
a mind. Mr. Asher, minister of Inveraven, in Morayshire, narrated to Dr. Paul a curious example
of want of intelligence combined with a power of cunning to redress a fancied wrong, shown
by a poor natural of the parish, who had been seized with a violent inflammatory attack, and
was in great danger. The medical attendant saw it necessary to bleed him, but he resisted,
and would not submit to it. At last the case became so hopeless that they were obliged to use
force, and, holding his hands and feet, the doctor opened a vein and drew blood, upon which
the poor creature, struggling violently, bawled out, "O doctor, doctor! you'll kill me! you'll
kill me! and depend upon it the first thing I'll do when I get to the other world will be to
report you to the board of Supervision there, and get you dismissed." A most extraordinary
sensation was once produced on a congregation by Rab Hamilton, a well-remembered crazy creature
of the west country, on the occasion of his attendance at the parish kirk of "Auld Ayr, wham
ne'er a toun surpasses," the minister of which, in the opinion of Rab's own minister, Mr. Peebles,
had a tendency to Socinian doctrines. Miss Kirkwood, Bothwell, relates the story from the recollection
of her aunt, who was present. Rab had put his head between some iron rails, the first intimation
of which to the congregation was a stentorian voice crying out, "Murder! my heed'll hae to
be cuttit aff! Holy minister! congregation! Oh, my heed maun be cuttit aff. It's a judgment
for leaving my godlie Mr. Peebles at the Newton." After he had been extricated and quieted,
when asked why he put his head there, he said, "It was juist to look on[170] wi' anither woman."

The following anecdote of this same Rab Hamilton from a kind correspondent at Ayr sanctions
the opinion that he must have occasionally said such clever things as made some think him more
rogue than fool. Dr. Auld often showed him kindness, but being once addressed by him when in
a hurry and out of humour, he said, "Get away, Rab; I have nothing for you to day." "Whaw,
whew," cried Rab, in a half howl, half whining tone, "I dinna want onything the day, Maister
Auld; I wanted to tell you an awsome dream I hae had. I dreamt I was deed." "Weel, what then?"
said Dr. Auld. "Ou, I was carried far, far, and up, up, up, till I cam to heeven's yett, where
I chappit, and chappit, and chappit, till at last an angel keekit out, and said 'Wha are ye?'
'A'm puir Rab Hamilton.' 'Whaur are ye frae?' 'Frae the wicked toun o' Ayr.' 'I dinna ken ony
sic place,' said the angel. 'Oh, but A'm juist frae there,' Weel, the angel sends for the Apostle
Peter, and Peter comes wi' his key and opens the yett, and says to me, 'Honest man, do you
come frae the auld toun o' Ayr?' 'Deed do I,' says I. 'Weel,' says Peter, 'I ken the place,
but naebody's cam frae the toun o' Ayr, no since the year'" so and so--mentioning the year
when Dr. Auld was inducted into the parish. Dr. Auld could not resist giving him his answer,
and telling him to go about his business.

The pathetic complaint of one of this class, residing at a farm-house, has often been narrated,
and forms a good illustration of idiot life and feelings. He was living in the greatest comfort,
and every want provided. But, like the rest of mankind, he had his own trials, and his own
cause for anxiety and annoyance. In this poor fellow's case it was the great turkey-cock at
the farm, of which he stood so terribly in awe that he was afraid to come within a great distance
of his enemy. Some of his friends, coming to visit him, reminded him how comfortable he was,
and how grateful he ought to be for the great care taken of him. He admitted the truth of the
remark generally, but still, like others, he had his unknown grief which sorely beset his path
in life. There was a secret grievance which embittered his lot; and to his friend he thus opened
his heart:--"Ae, ae, but oh, I'm sair hadden doun wi' the bubbly jock[171]."

I have received two anecdotes illustrative both of the occasional acutenesss of mind, and of
the sensitiveness of feeling occasionally indicated by persons thus situated. A well-known
idiot, Jamie Fraser, belonging to the parish of Lunan, in Forfarshire, quite surprised people
sometimes by his replies. The congregation of his parish church had for some time distressed
the minister by their habit of sleeping in church. He had often endeavoured to impress them
with a sense of the impropriety of such conduct, and one day Jamie was sitting in the front
gallery, wide awake, when many were slumbering round him. The clergyman endeavoured to draw
the attention of his hearers to his discourse by stating the fact, saying, "You see even Jamie
Fraser, the idiot, does not fall asleep, as so many of you are doing." Jamie, not liking, perhaps,
to be thus designated, coolly replied, "An I hadna been an idiot, I micht ha' been sleepin'
too." Another of these imbeciles, belonging to Peebles, had been sitting at church for some
time listening attentively to a strong representation from the pulpit of the guilt of deceit
and falsehood in Christian characters. He was observed to turn red, and grow very uneasy, until
at last, as if wincing under the supposed attack upon himself personally, he roared out, "Indeed,
minister, there's mair leears in Peebles than me." As examples of this class of persons possessing
much of the dry humour of their more sane countrymen, and of their facility to utter sly and
ready-witted sayings, I have received the two following from Mr. W. Chambers:--Daft Jock Gray,
the supposed original of David Gellatley, was one day assailed by the minister of a south-country
parish on the subject of his idleness. "John," said the minister, rather pompously, "you are
a very idle fellow; you might surely herd a few cows." "Me hird!" replied Jock; "I dinna ken
corn frae gerss."

"There was a carrier named Davie Loch who was reputed to be rather light of wits, but at the
same time not without a sense of his worldly interests. His mother, finding her end approaching,
addressed her son in the presence of a number of the neighbours. 'The house will be Davie's
and the furniture too.' 'Eh, hear her,' quoth Davie; 'sensible to the last, sensible to the
last.' 'The lyin' siller'--'Eh yes; how clear she is about everything!' 'The lyin' siller is
to be divided between my twa dauchters.' 'Steek the bed doors, steek the bed doors[172],' interposed
Davie; 'she's ravin' now;' and the old dying woman was shut up accordingly."

In the Memorials of the Montgomeries, Earls of Eglinton, vol. i. p. 134, occurs an anecdote
illustrative of the peculiar acuteness and quaint humour which occasionally mark the sayings
of persons considered as imbeciles. There was a certain "Daft Will Speir," who was a privileged
haunter of Eglinton Castle and grounds. He was discovered by the Earl one day taking a near
cut, and crossing a fence in the demesne. The Earl called out, "Come back, sir, that's not
the road." "Do you ken," said Will, "whaur I'm gaun?" "No," replied his lordship. "Weel, hoo
the deil do ye ken whether this be the road or no?"

This same "Daft Will Speir" was passing the minister's glebe, where haymaking was in progress.
The minister asked Will if he thought the weather would keep up, as it looked rather like rain.
"Weel," said Will, "I canna be very sure, but I'll be passin' this way the nicht, an' I'll
ca' in and tell ye." "Well, Will," said his master one day to him, seeing that he had just
finished his dinner, "have you had a good dinner to day?" (Will had been grumbling some time
before.) "Ou, vera gude," answered Will; "but gin onybody asks if I got a dram after't, what
will I say?" This poor creature had a high sense of duty. It appears he had been given the
charge of the coal-stores at the Earl of Eglinton's. Having on one occasion been reprimanded
for allowing the supplies to run out before further supplies were ordered, he was ever afterwards
most careful to fulfil his duty. In course of time poor Will became "sick unto death," and
the minister came to see him. Thinking him in really a good frame of mind, the minister asked
him, in presence of the laird and others, if there were not one great thought which was ever
to him the highest consolation in his hour of trouble. "Ou ay," gasped the sufferer, "Lord
be thankit, a' the bunkers are fu'!"

The following anecdote is told regarding the late Lord Dundrennan:--A half silly basket-woman
passing down his avenue at Compstone one day, he met her, and said, "My good woman, there's
no road this way." "Na, sir," she said, "I think ye're wrang there; I think it's a most beautifu'
road."

These poor creatures have invariably a great delight in attending funerals. In many country
places hardly a funeral ever took place without the attendance of the parochial idiot. It seemed
almost a necessary association; and such attendance seemed to constitute the great delight
of those creatures.

The following anecdote, supplied by Mr. Blair, is an amusing illustration both of the funeral
propensity, and of the working of a defective brain, in a half-witted carle, who used to range
the province of Galloway armed with a huge pike-staff, and who one day met a funeral procession
a few miles from Wigtown. A long train of carriages, and farmers riding on horse-back, suggested
the propriety of his bestriding his staff, and following after the funeral. The procession
marched at a brisk pace, and on reaching the kirk-yard style, as each rider dismounted, "Daft
Jock" descended from his wooden steed, besmeared with mire and perspiration, exclaiming, "Hech,
sirs, had it no been for the fashion o' the thing, I micht as weel hae been on my ain feet."

The withdrawal of these characters from public view, and the loss of importance which they
once enjoyed in Scottish society, seem to me inexplicable. Have they ceased to exist, or are
they removed from our sight to different scenes? The fool was, in early times, a very important
personage in most Scottish households of any distinction. Indeed this had been so common as
to be a public nuisance.

It seemed that persons assumed the character, for we find a Scottish Act of Parliament, dated
19th January 1449, with this title:--"Act for the way-putting of Fenyent Fules," etc. (Thomson's
Acts of Parliament of Scotland, vol. i.); and it enacts very stringent measures against such
persons. They seem to have formed a link between the helpless idiot and the boisterous madman,
sharing the eccentricity of the latter and the stupidity of the former, generally adding, however,
a good deal of the sharp-wittedness of the knave. Up to the middle of the eighteenth century
this appears to have been still an appendage to some families. I have before me a little publication
with the title, "The Life and Death of Jamie Fleeman, the Laird of Udny's Fool. Tenth edition.
Aberdeen, 1810." With portrait. Also twenty-sixth edition, of 1829. I should suppose this account
of a family fool was a fair representation of a good specimen of the class. He was evidently
of defective intellect, but at times showed the odd humour and quick conclusion which so often
mark the disordered brain. I can only now give two examples taken from his history:--Having
found a horse-shoe on the road, he met Mr. Craigie, the minister of St. Fergus, and showed
it to him, asking, in pretended ignorance, what it was. "Why, Jamie," said Mr. Craigie, good
humouredly, "anybody that was not a fool would know that it is a horse-shoe." "Ah!" said Jamie,
with affected simplicity, "what it is to be wise--to ken it's no a meer's shoe!"

On another occasion, when all the country-side were hastening to the Perth races, Jamie had
cut across the fields and reached a bridge near the town, and sat down upon the parapet. He
commenced munching away at a large portion of a leg of mutton which he had somehow become possessed
of, and of which he was amazingly proud. The laird came riding past, and seeing Jamie sitting
on the bridge, accosted him:--"Ay, Fleeman, are ye here already?" "Ou ay," quoth Fleeman, with
an air of assumed dignity and archness not easy to describe, while his eye glanced significantly
towards the mutton, "Ou ay, ye ken a body when he has anything."

Of witty retorts by half-witted creatures of this class, I do not know of one more pointed
than what is recorded of such a character who used to hang about the residence of a late Lord
Fife. It would appear that some parts of his lordship's estates, were barren, and in a very
unproductive condition. Under the improved system of agriculture and of draining, great preparations
had been made for securing a good crop in a certain field, where Lord Fife, his factor, and
others interested in the subject, were collected together. There was much discussion, and some
difference of opinion, as to the crop with which the field had best be sown. The idiot retainer,
who had been listening unnoticed to all that was said, at last cried out, "Saw't wi' factors,
ma lord; they are sure to thrive everywhere."

There was an idiot who lived long in Lauder, and seems to have had a great resemblance to the
jester of old times. He was a staunch supporter of the Established Church. One day some one
gave him a bad shilling. On Sunday he went to the Seceders' meeting-house, and when the ladle
was taken round he put in his bad shilling and took out elevenpence halfpenny. Afterwards he
went in high glee to the late Lord Lauderdale, calling out, "I've cheated the Seceders the
day, my lord; I've cheated the Seceders."

Jemmy had long harboured a dislike to the steward on the property, which he made manifest in
the following manner:--Lord Lauderdale and Sir Anthony Maitland used to take him out shooting;
and one day Lord Maitland (he was then), on having to cross the Leader, said, "Now, Jemmy,
you shall carry me through the water," which Jemmy duly did. The steward, who was shooting
with them, expected the same service, and accordingly said, "Now, Jemmy, you must carry me
over." "Vera weel," said Jemmy. He took the steward on his back, and when he had carefully
carried him half-way across the river he paid off his grudge by dropping him quietly into the
water.

A daft individual used to frequent the same district, about whom a variety of opinions were
entertained,--some people thinking him not so foolish as he sometimes seemed. On one occasion
a person, wishing to test whether he knew the value of money, held out a sixpence and a penny,
and offered him his choice. "I'll tak the wee ane," he said, giving as his modest reason, "I'se
no be greedy." At another time, a miller laughing at him for his witlessness, he said, "Some
things I ken, and some I dinna ken." On being asked what he knew, he said, "I ken a miller
has aye a gey fat sou." "An' what d'ye no ken?" said the miller. "Ou," he returned, "I dinna
ken wha's expense she's fed at."

A very amusing collision of one of those penurious lairds, already referred to, a certain Mr.
Gordon of Rothie, with a half-daft beggar wanderer of the name of Jock Muilton, has been recorded.
The laird was very shabby, as usual, and, meeting Jock, began to banter him on the subject
of his dress:--"Ye're very grand, Jock. Thae's fine claes ye hae gotten; whaur did ye get that
coat?" Jock told him who had given him his coat, and then, looking slily at the laird, he inquired,
as with great simplicity, "And whaur did ye get yours, laird?"

For another admirable story of a rencontre between a penurious laird and the parish natural
I am indebted to the Scotsman, June 16, 1871. Once on a time there was a Highland laird renowned
for his caution in money matters, and his precise keeping of books. His charities were there;
but that department of his bookkeeping was not believed to be heavy. On examination, a sum
of half-a-crown was unexpectedly discovered in it; but this was accounted for in a manner creditable
to his intentions, if not to his success in executing them. It had been given in mistake instead
of a coin of a different denomination, to "the natural" of the parish for holding his shelty
while he transacted business at the bank. A gleam in the boy's eye drew his attention to a
gleam of white as the metal dropped into his pocket. In vain the laird assured him it was not
a good bawbee--if he would give it up he would get another--it was "guid eneuch" for the like
of him. And when the laird in his extremity swore a great oath that unless it was given up
he would never give another halfpenny, the answer was--"Ech, laird, it wad be lang or ye gied
me saxty."

Another example of shrewd and ready humour in one of that class is the following:--In this
case the idiot was musical, and earned a few stray pence by playing Scottish airs on a flute.
He resided at Stirling, and used to hang about the door of the inn to watch the arrival and
departure of travellers. A lady, who used to give him something occasionally, was just starting,
and said to Jamie that she had only a fourpenny piece, and that he must be content with that,
for she could not stay to get more. Jamie was not satisfied, and as the lady drove out, he
expressed his feelings by playing with all his might, "O wearie o' the toom pouch[173]."

The spirit in Jamie Fraser before mentioned, and which had kept him awake, shows itself in
idiots occasionally by making them restless and troublesome. One of this character had annoyed
the clergyman where he attended church by fidgeting, and by uncouth sounds which he uttered
during divine service. Accordingly, one day before church began, he was cautioned against moving,
or "making a whisht," under the penalty of being turned out. The poor creature sat quite still
and silent, till, in a very important part of the sermon, he felt an inclination to cough.
So he shouted out, "Minister, may a puir body like me noo gie a hoast[174]?"

I have two anecdotes of two peers, who might be said to come under the description of half-witted.
In their case the same sort of dry Scotch humour came out under the cloak of mental disease.
The first is of a Scottish nobleman of the last century who had been a soldier the greater
part of his life, but was obliged to come home on account of aberration of mind, superinduced
by hereditary propensity. Desirous of putting him under due restraint, and at the same time
of engaging his mind in his favourite pursuit, his friends secured a Sergeant Briggs to be
his companion, and, in fact, keeper. To render the sergeant acceptable as a companion they
introduced him to the old earl as Colonel Briggs. Being asked how he liked "the colonel," the
earl showed how acute he still was by his answer, "Oh, very well; he is a sensible man, and
a good soldier, but he smells damnably of the halbert."

The second anecdote relates also to a Scottish nobleman labouring under aberration of mind,
and is, I believe, a traditionary one. In Scotland, some hundred years ago, madhouses did not
exist, or were on a very limited scale; and there was often great difficulty in procuring suitable
accommodation for patients who required special treatment and seclusion from the world. The
gentleman in question had been consigned to the Canongate prison, and his position there was
far from comfortable. An old friend called to see him, and asked how it had happened that he
was placed in so unpleasant a situation. His reply was, "Sir, it was more the kind interest
and patronage of my friends than my own merits that have placed me here." "But have you not
remonstrated or complained?" asked his visitor. "I told them" said his lordship, "that they
were a pack of infernal villains." "Did you?" said his friend; "that was bold language; and
what did they say to that?" "Oh," said the peer, "I took care not to tell them till they were
fairly out of the place, and weel up the Canongate."

In Peebles there was a crazy being of this kind called "Daft Yedie." On one occasion he saw
a gentleman, a stranger in the town, who had a club foot. Yedie contemplated this phenomenon
with some interest, and, addressing the gentleman, said compassionately, "It's a great pity--its
spoils the boot." There is a story of one of those half-witted creatures of a different character
from the humorous ones already recorded; I think it is exceedingly affecting. The story is
traditionary in a country district, and I am not aware of its being ever printed.

A poor boy, of this class, who had evidently manifested a tendency towards religious and devotional
feelings, asked permission from the clergyman to attend the Lord's Table and partake of the
holy communion with the other members of the congregation (whether Episcopalian or Presbyterian
I do not know). The clergyman demurred for some time, under the impression of his mind being
incapable of a right and due understanding of the sacred ordinance. But observing the extreme
earnestness of the poor boy, he at last gave consent, and he was allowed to come. He was much
affected, and all the way home was heard to exclaim, "Oh! I hae seen the pretty man." This
referred to his seeing the Lord Jesus whom he had approached in the sacrament. He kept repeating
the words, and went with them on his lips to rest for the night. Not appearing at the usual
hour for breakfast, when they went to his bedside they found him dead! The excitement had been
too much--mind and body had given way--and the half-idiot of earth awoke to the glories and
the bliss of his Redeemer's presence.

Analogous with the language of the defective intellect is the language of the imperfectly formed
intellect, and I have often thought there was something very touching and very fresh in the
expression of feelings and notions by children. I have given examples before, but the following
is, to my taste, a charming specimen:--A little boy had lived for some time with a very penurious
uncle, who took good care that the child's health should not be injured by over-feeding. The
uncle was one day walking out, the child at his side, when a friend accosted him, accompanied
by a greyhound. While the elders were talking, the little fellow, never having seen a dog so
slim and slight of form, clasped the creature round the neck with the impassioned cry, "Oh,
doggie, doggie, and div ye live wi' your uncle tae, that ye are so thin?"

In connection with funerals, I am indebted to the kindness of Lord Kinloch for a characteristic
anecdote of cautious Scottish character in the west country. It was the old fashion, still
practised in some districts, to carry the coffin to the grave on long poles, or "spokes," as
they were commonly termed. There were usually two bearers abreast on each side. On a certain
occasion one of the two said to his companion, "I'm awfu' tired wi' carryin'." "Do you carry?"
was the interrogatory in reply. "Yes; what do you do?" "Oh," said the other, "I aye lean."
His friend's fatigue was at once accounted for.

I am strongly tempted to give an account of a parish functionary in the words of a kind correspondent
from Kilmarnock, although communicated in the following very flattering terms:--"In common
with every Scottish man worthy of the name, I have been delighted with your book, and have
the ambition to add a pebble to the cairn, and accordingly send you a bellman story; it has,
at least, the merit of being unprinted and unedited."

The incumbent of Craigie parish, in this district of Ayrshire, had asked a Mr. Wood, tutor
in the Cairnhill family, to officiate for him on a particular Sunday. Mr. Wood, however, between
the time of being asked and the appointed day, got intimation of the dangerous illness of his
father; in the hurry of setting out to see him, he forgot to arrange for the pulpit being filled.
The bellman of Craigie parish, by name Matthew Dinning, and at this time about eighty years
of age, was a very little "crined[175]" old man, and always wore a broad Scottish blue bonnet,
with a red "bob" on the top. The parish is a small rural one, so that Matthew knew every inhabitant
in it, and had seen most of them grow up. On this particular day, after the congregation had
waited for some time, Matthew was seen to walk very slowly up the middle of the church, with
the large Bible and psalm-book under his arm, to mount the pulpit stair; and after taking his
bonnet off, and smoothing down his forehead with his "loof," thus addressed the audience:--

"My freens, there was ane Wuds tae hae preached here the day, but he has nayther comed himsell,
nor had the ceevility tae sen' us the scart o' a pen. Ye'll bide here for ten meenonts, and
gin naebody comes forrit in that time, ye can gang awa' hame. Some say his feyther's dead;
as for that I kenna."

The following is another illustration of the character of the old Scottish betheral. One of
those worthies, who was parochial grave-digger, had been missing for two days or so, and the
minister had in vain sent to discover him at most likely places. He bethought, at last, to
make inquiry at a "public" at some distance from the village, and on entering the door he met
his man in the trance, quite fou, staggering out, supporting himself with a hand on each wa'.
To the minister's sharp rebuke and rising wrath for his indecent and shameful behaviour, John,
a wag in his way, and emboldened by liquor, made answer, "'Deed, sir, sin' I ca'd at the manse,
I hae buried an auld wife, and I've just drucken her, hough an' horn." Such was his candid
admission of the manner in which he had disposed of the church fees paid for the interment.

An encounter of wits between a laird and an elder:--A certain laird in Fife, well known for
his parsimonious habits, and who, although his substance largely increased, did not increase
his liberality in his weekly contribution to the church collection, which never exceeded the
sum of one penny, one day by mistake dropped into the plate at the door half-a-crown; but discovering
his error before he was seated in his pew, he hurried back, and was about to replace the coin
by his customary penny, when the elder in attendance cried out, "Stop, laird; ye may put in
what ye like, but ye maun tak naething oot!" The laird, finding his explanations went for nothing,
at last said, "Aweel, I suppose I'll get credit for it in heaven." "Na, na, laird," said the
elder, sarcastically; "ye'll only get credit for the penny."

The following is not a bad specimen of sly piper wit:--

The Rev. Mr. Johnstone of Monquhitter, a very grandiloquent pulpit orator in his day, accosting
a travelling piper, well known in the district, with the question, "Well, John, how does the
wind pay?" received from John, with a low bow, the answer, "Your Reverence has the advantage
of me."

Apropos to stories connected with ministers and pipers, there cannot be a better specimen than
the famous one preserved by Sir Walter Scott, in his notes to Waverley, which I am tempted
to reproduce, as possibly some of my readers may have forgotten it. The gudewife of the inn
at Greenlaw had received four clerical guests into her house, a father and three sons. The
father took an early opportunity of calling the attention of the landlady to the subject of
his visit, and, introducing himself, commenced in rather a pompous manner--"Now, confess, Luckie
Buchan, you never remember having such a party in your house before. Here am I, a placed minister,
with my three sons, who are themselves all placed ministers." The landlady, accustomed to a
good deal of deference and attention from the county families, not quite liking the high tone
assumed by the minister on the occasion, and being well aware that all the four were reckoned
very poor and uninteresting preachers, answered rather drily, "'Deed, minister, I canna just
say that I ever had sic a party before in the hoose, except it were in the '45, when I had
a piper and his three sons--a' pipers. But" (she added quietly, as if aside), "deil a spring
could they play amang them."

I have received from Rev. William Blair, A.M., U.P. minister at Dunblane, many kind communications.
I have made a selection, which I now group together, and they have this character in common,
that they are all anecdotes of ministers:--

Rev. Walter Dunlop of Dumfries was well known for pithy and facetious replies; he was kindly
known under the appellation of our "Watty Dunlop." On one occasion two irreverent young fellows
determined, as they said, to "taigle[176]" the minister. Coming up to him in the High Street
of Dumfries, they accosted him with much solemnity--"Maister Dunlop, dae ye hear the news?"
"What news?" "Oh, the deil's deed." "Is he?" said Mr. Dunlop, "then I maun pray for twa faitherless
bairns." On another occasion Mr. Dunlop met, with characteristic humour, an attempt to play
off a trick against him. It was known that he was to dine with a minister whose house was close
to the church, so that his return back must be through the churchyard. Accordingly some idle
and mischievous youths waited for him in the dark night, and one of them came up to him, dressed
as a ghost, in hopes of putting him in a fright. Watty's cool accost speedily upset the plan:--"Weel,
Maister Ghaist, is this a general rising, or are ye juist takin' a daunder frae yer grave by
yersell?" I have received from a correspondent another specimen of Watty's acute rejoinders.
Some years ago the celebrated Edward Irving had been lecturing at Dumfries, and a man who passed
as a wag in that locality had been to hear him. He met Watty Dunlop the following day, who
said, "Weel, Willie, man, an' what do ye think of Mr. Irving?" "Oh," said Willie, contemptuously,
"the man's crack't." Dunlop patted him on the shoulder, with a quiet remark, "Willie, ye'll
aften see a light peeping through a crack!"

He was accompanying a funeral one day, when he met a man driving a flock of geese. The wayward
disposition of the bipeds at the moment was too much for the driver's temper, and he indignantly
cried out, "Deevil choke them!" Mr. Dunlop walked a little farther on, and passed a farm-stead,
where a servant was driving out a number of swine, and banning them with "Deevil tak them!"
Upon which, Mr. Dunlop stepped up to him, and said, "Ay, ay, my man; your gentleman'll be wi'
ye i' the noo: he's juist back the road there a bit, choking some geese till a man."

Shortly after the Disruption, Dr. Cook of St. Andrews was introduced to Mr. Dunlop, upon which
occasion Mr. Dunlop said, "Weel, sir, ye've been lang Cook, Cooking them, but ye've dished
them at last."

Mr. Clark of Dalreoch, whose head was vastly disproportioned to his body, met Mr. Dunlop one
day. "Weel, Mr. Clark, that's a great head o' yours." "Indeed it is, Mr. Dunlop; I could contain
yours inside of my own." "Juist sae," quietly replied Mr. Dunlop; "I was e'en thinkin' it was
geyan toom[177]."

Mr. Dunlop happened one day to be present in a church court of a neighbouring presbytery. A
Rev. Doctor was asked to pray, and declined. On the meeting adjourning, Mr. Dunlop stepped
up to the Doctor, and asked how he did. The Doctor, never having been introduced, did not reply.
Mr. Dunlop withdrew, and said to his friend, "Eh! but isna he a queer man, that Doctor, he'll
neither speak to God nor man."

The Rev. John Brown of Whitburn was riding out one day on an old pony, when he was accosted
by a rude youth: "I say, Mr. Broon, what gars your horse's tail wag that way?" "Oo, juist what
gars your tongue wag; it's fashed wi' a wakeness."

About sixty years ago there were two ministers in Sanquhar of the name of Thomson, one of whom
was father of the late Dr. Andrew Thomson of Edinburgh, the other was father of Dr. Thomson
of Balfron. The domestic in the family of the latter was rather obtrusive with her secret devotions,
sometimes kneeling on the stairs at night, and talking loud enough to be heard. On a communion
season she was praying devoutly and exclusively for her minister: "Remember Mr. Tamson, no
him at the Green, but oor ain Mr. Tamson."

Rev. Mr. Leslie of Morayshire combined the duties of justice of peace with those of parochial
clergyman. One day he was taken into confidence by a culprit who had been caught in the act
of smuggling, and was threatened with a heavy fine. The culprit was a staunch Seceder, and
owned a small farm. Mr. Leslie, with an old-fashioned zeal for the Established Church, said
to him, "The king will come in the cadger's road some day. Ye wadna come to the parish kirk,
though it were to save your life, wad ye? Come noo, an' I'se mak ye a' richt!" Next Sabbath
the seceding smuggler appeared in the parish kirk, and as the paupers were receiving parochial
allowance, Mr. Leslie slipped a shilling into the smuggler's hand. When the J.P. Court was
held, Mr. Leslie was present, when a fine was proposed to be exacted from the smuggler. "Fine!"
said Mr. Leslie; "he's mair need o' something to get duds to his back. He's are o' my poor
roll; I gie'd him a shilling just last Sabbath."

A worthy old Seceder used to ride from Gargunnock to Bucklyvie every Sabbath to attend the
Burgher kirk. One day as he rode past the parish kirk of Kippen, the elder at the plate accosted
him, "I'm sure, John, it's no like the thing to see you ridin' in sic a doon-pour o' rain sae
far by to thae Seceders. Ye ken the mercifu' man is mercifu' to his beast. Could ye no step
in by?" "Weel," said John, "I wadna care sae muckle about stablin' my beast inside, but it's
anither thing mysel' gain' in."

The Rev. Dr. George Lawson of Selkirk acted for many years as theological tutor to the Secession
Church. One day, on entering the Divinity Hall, he overheard a student remark that the professor's
wig was uncombed. That same student, on that very day, had occasion to preach a sermon before
the Doctor, for which he received a bit of severe criticism, the sting of which was in its
tail: "You said my wig wasna kaimed this mornin', my lad, but I think I've redd your head to you."

The Rev. John Heugh of Stirling was one day admonishing one of his people of the sin of intemperance:
"Man, John, you should never drink except when you're dry." "Weel, sir," quoth John, "that's
what I'm aye doin', for I am never slocken'd."

The Rev. Mr. M---- of Bathgate came up to a street-paviour one day, and addressed him, "Eh,
John, what's this you're at?" "Oh! I'm mending the ways o' Bathgate!" "Ah, John, I've long
been trying to mend the ways o' Bathgate, an' they're no weel yet." "Weel, Mr. M., if you had
tried my plan, and come doon to your knees, ye wad maybe hae come mair speed!"

There once lived in Cupar a merchant whose store contained supplies of every character and
description, so that he was commonly known by the sobriquet of Robbie A'Thing. One day a minister,
who was well known for a servile use of MS. in the pulpit, called at the store, asking for
a rope and pin to tether a young calf in the glebe. Robbie at once informed him that he could
not furnish such articles to him. But the minister, being somewhat importunate, said, "Oh!
I thought you were named Robbie A'Thing from the fact of your keeping all kinds of goods."
"Weel a weel," said Robbie, "I keep a'thing in my shop but calf's tether-pins and paper sermons
for ministers to read."

It was a somewhat whimsical advice, supported by whimsical argument, which used to be given
by an old Scottish minister to young preachers, when they visited from home, to "sup well at
the kail, for if they were good they were worth the supping, and if not they might be sure
there was not much worth coming after them."

A good many families in and around Dunblane rejoice in the patronymic of Dochart. This name,
which sounds somewhat Irish, is derived from Loch Dochart, in Perthshire. The M'Gregors having
been proscribed, were subjected to severe penalties, and a group of the clan having been hunted
by their superiors, swam the stream which issues from Loch Dochart, and in gratitude to the
river they afterwards assumed the family name of Dochart. A young lad of this name, on being
sent to Glasgow College, presented a letter from his minister to Rev. Dr. Heugh of Glasgow.
He gave his name as Dochart, and the name in the letter was M'Gregor. "Oh," said the Doctor,
"I fear there is some mistake about your identity, the names don't agree." "Weel, sir, that's
the way they spell the name in our country."

The relative whom I have mentioned as supplying so many Scottish anecdotes had many stories
of a parochial functionary whose eccentricities have, in a great measure, given way before
the assimilating spirit of the times. I mean the old SCOTTISH BEADLE, or betheral, as he used
to be called. Some classes of men are found to have that nameless but distinguishing characteristic
of figure and aspect which marks out particular occupations and professions of mankind. This
was so much the case in the betheral class, that an old lady, observing a well-known judge
and advocate walking together in the street, remarked to a friend as they passed by, "Dear
me, Lucy, wha are thae twa beddle-looking bodies?" They were often great originals, and, I
suspect, must have been in past times somewhat given to convivial habits, from a remark I recollect
of the late Baron Clerk Rattray, viz. that in his younger days he had hardly ever known a perfectly
sober betheral. However this may have been, they were, as a class, remarkable for quaint humour,
and for being shrewd observers of what was going on. I have heard of an occasion where the
betheral made his wit furnish an apology for his want of sobriety. He had been sent round the
parish by the minister to deliver notices at all the houses, of the catechising which was to
precede the preparation for receiving the communion. On his return it was quite evident that
he had partaken too largely of refreshment since he had been on his expedition. The minister
reproached him for this improper conduct. The betheral pleaded the pressing hospitality of
the parishioners. The clergyman did not admit the plea, and added, "Now, John, I go through
the parish, and you don't see me return fou, as you have done." "Ay, minister," rejoined the
betheral, with much complacency, "but then aiblins ye're no sae popular i' the parish as me."

My relative used to tell of one of these officials receiving, with much ceremony, a brother
betheral, from a neighbouring parish, who had come with the minister thereof for the purpose
of preaching on some special occasion. After service, the betheral of the stranger clergyman
felt proud of the performance of the appointed duty, and said in a triumphant tone to his friend,
"I think oor minister did weel; ay, he gars the stour flee oot o' the cushion." To which the
other rejoined, with a calm feeling of superiority, "Stour oot o' the cushion! hout, our minister,
sin' he cam wi' us, has dung the guts oot o' twa Bibles." Another description I have heard
of an energetic preacher more forcible than delicate--"Eh, oor minister had a great power o'
watter, for he grat, and spat, and swat like mischeef." An obliging anonymous correspondent
has sent me a story of a functionary of this class whose pride was centred not so much in the
performance of the minister as of the precentor. He states that he remembers an old beadle
of the church which was called "Haddo's Hole," and sometimes the "Little Kirk," in Edinburgh,
whose son occasionally officiated as precentor. He was not very well qualified for the duty,
but the father had a high opinion of his son's vocal powers. In those days there was always
service in the church on the Tuesday evenings; and when the father was asked on such occasions,
"Who's to preach to-night?" his self-complacent reply used to be, "I divna ken wha's till preach,
but my son's for till precent." The following is a more correct version of a betheral story
than one which occupied this page in the last edition. The beadle had been asked to recommend
a person for the same office, and his answer was, "If ye had wanted twa or three bits o' elder
bodies, I cud hae gotten them for ye as easily as penny baps oot of Mr. Rowan's shop," pointing
to a baker's shop opposite to where the colloquy took place; "or even if ye had wanted a minister,
I might hae helpit ye to get ane; but as for a gude beadle, that's about the maist difficult
thing I ken o' just now."

Perhaps the following may seem to illustrate the self-importance of the betheral tribe. The
Rev. Dr. Hugh Blair was one Sunday absent from his pulpit, and next morning meeting his beadle
in the street he inquired how matters went in the High Church on Sabbath. "'Deed, I dare say
no very weel," was the answer; "I wasna there ony mair than yoursell."

Mr. Turnbull of Dundee kindly sends me an excellent anecdote of the "Betheral" type, which
illustrates the esprit de corps of the betherelian mind. The late Dr. Robertson of Glasgow
had, while in the parish of Mains, a quaint old church attendant of the name of Walter Nicoll,
commonly called "Watty Nuckle," whom he invited to come and visit him after he had been removed
to Glasgow. Watty accordingly ventured on the (to him) terrible journey, and was received by
the Doctor with great kindness. The Doctor, amongst other sights, took him to see the Cathedral
church, and showed him all through it, and after they were coming away the Doctor asked Watty
what he thought of it, and if it was not better than the Mains church. Watty shook his head,
and said, "Aweel, sir, you see she's bigger; but she has nae laft, and she's sair fashed wi'
thae pillars."

On the same subject of beadle peculiarities, I have received from Mrs. Mearns of Kineff Manse
an exquisitely characteristic illustration of beadle professional habits being made to bear
upon the tender passion:--A certain beadle had fancied the manse housemaid, but at a loss for
an opportunity to declare himself, one day--a Sunday--when his duties were ended, he looked
sheepish, and said, "Mary, wad ye tak a turn, Mary?" He led her to the churchyard, and pointing
with his finger, got out, "My fowk lie there, Mary; wad ye like to lie there?" The grave hint
was taken, and she became his wife, but does not yet lie there.

Here is another good example of betheral refinement or philosophy.--He was carefully dressing
up a grave, and adjusting the turf upon it. The clergyman, passing through the churchyard,
observed, "That's beautiful sod, Jeems." "Indeed is't, minister, and I grudge it upon the grave
o' sic a scamp."

This class of functionaries were very free in their remarks upon the preaching of strangers,
who used occasionally to occupy the pulpit of their church--the city betherals speaking sometimes
in a most condescending manner of clergy from the provincial parishes. As, for example, a betheral
of one of the large churches in Glasgow, criticising the sermon of a minister from the country
who had been preaching in the city church, characterised it as "gude coorse country wark."
A betheral of one of the churches of St. Giles, Edinburgh, used to call on the family of Mr.
Robert Stevenson, engineer, who was one of the elders. On one occasion they asked him what
had been the text on such a night, when none of the family had been present. The man of office,
confused at the question, and unwilling to show anything like ignorance, poured forth, "Weel,
ye see, the text last day was just entirely, sirs--yes--the text, sirs--what was it again?--ou
ay, just entirely, ye see it was, 'What profiteth a man if he lose the world, and gain his
own soul?'" Most of such stories are usually of an old standing. A more recent one has been
told me of a betheral of a royal burgh much decayed from former importance, and governed by
a feeble municipality of old men, who continued in office, and in fact constituted rather the
shadow than the substance of a corporation. A clergyman from a distance having come to officiate
in the parish church, the betheral, knowing the terms on which it was usual for the minister
officiating to pray for the efficiency of the local magistracy, quietly cautioned the clergyman
before service that, in regard to the town-council there, it would be quite out of place for
him to pray that they should be a "terror to evil-doers," because, as he said, "the puir auld
bodies could be nae terror to onybody." A minister of Easter Anstruther, during the last century,
used to say of the magistrates of Wester Anstruther, that "instead of being a terror to evil-doers,
evil-doers were a terror to them."

The "minister's man" was a functionary well known in many parishes, and who often evinced much
Scottish humour and original character. These men were (like the betheral) great critics of
sermons, and often severe upon strangers, sometimes with a sly hit at their own minister. One
of these, David, a well-known character, complimenting a young minister who had preached, told
him, "Your introduction, sir, is aye grand; its worth a' the rest o' the sermon--could ye no
mak it a' introduction?"

David's criticisms of his master's sermons were sometimes sharp enough and shrewd. On one occasion,
driving the minister home from a neighbouring church where he had been preaching, and who,
as he thought, had acquitted himself pretty well, inquired of David what he thought of it.
The subject of discourse had been the escape of the Israelites from Egypt. So David opened
his criticism--"Thocht o't, sir? deed I thocht nocht o't ava. It was a vara imperfect discourse
in ma opinion; ye did weel eneuch till ye took them through, but where did ye leave them? just
daunerin' o' the sea-shore without a place to gang till. Had it no been for Pharaoh they had
been better on the other side, where they were comfortably encampit, than daunerin' where ye
left them. It's painful to hear a sermon stoppit afore it's richt ended, just as it is to hear
ane streekit out lang after it's dune. That's ma opinion o' the sermon ye gied us to-day."
"Very freely given, David, very freely given; drive on a little faster, for I think ye're daunerin'
noo yersell."

To another who had gone through a long course of parish official life a gentleman one day remarked--"John,
ye hae been sae lang about the minister's hand that I dare say ye could preach a sermon yersell
now." To which John modestly replied, "O na, sir, I couldna preach a sermon, but maybe I could
draw an inference." "Well, John," said the gentleman, humouring the quiet vanity of the beadle,
"what inference could ye draw frae this text, 'A wild ass snuffeth up the wind at her pleasure?'"
(Jer. ii. 24). "Weel, sir, I wad draw this inference, he would snuff a lang time afore he would
fatten upon't." I had an anecdote from a friend, of a reply from a betheral to the minister
in church, which was quaint and amusing from the shrewd self-importance it indicated in his
own acuteness. The clergyman had been annoyed during the course of his sermon by the restlessness
and occasional whining of a dog, which at last began to bark outright. He looked out for the
beadle, and directed him very peremptorily, "John, carry that dog out." John, looked up to
the pulpit, and with a very knowing expression, said, "Na, na, sir; I'se just mak him gae out
on his ain four legs." I have another story of canine misbehaviour in church. A dog was present
during the service, and in the sermon the worthy minister was in the habit of speaking very
loud, and, in fact, when he got warmed with his subject, of shouting almost at the top of his
voice. The dog, who, in the early part, had been very quiet, became quite excited, as is not
uncommon with some dogs when hearing a noise, and from whinging and whining, as the speaker's
voice rose loud and strong, at last began to bark and howl. The minister, naturally much annoyed
at the interruption, called upon the betheral to put out the dog, who at once expressed his
readiness to obey the order, but could not resist the temptation to look up to the pulpit,
and to say very significantly, "Ay, ay, sir; but indeed it was yersell began it." There is
a dog story connected with Reminiscences of Glasgow (see Chambers's Journal, March 1855), which
is full of meaning. The bowls of rum-punch which so remarkably characterised the Glasgow dinners
of last century and the early part of the present, it is to be feared made some of the congregation
given to somnolency on the Sundays following. The members of the town-council often adopted
Saturday for such meetings; accordingly, the Rev. Mr. Thorn, an excellent clergyman[178], took
occasion to mark this propensity with some acerbity. A dog had been very troublesome, and disturbed
the congregation for some time, when the minister at last gave orders to the beadle, "Take
out that dog; he'd wauken a Glasgow magistrate."

The parochial gravediggers had sometimes a very familiar professional style of dealing with
the solemn subjects connected with their office. Thus I have heard of a grave-digger pointing
out a large human bone to a lady who was looking at his work, of digging a grave, and asking
her--"D'ye ken wha's bane that is, mem?--that's Jenny Fraser's hench-bane;" adding with a serious
aspect--"a weel-baned family thae Frasers."

It would be impossible in these Reminiscences to omit the well-known and often repeated anecdote
connected with an eminent divine of our own country, whose works take a high place in our theological
literature. The story to which I allude was rendered popular throughout the kingdom some years
ago, by the inimitable mode in which it was told, or rather acted, by the late Charles Matthews.
But Matthews was wrong in the person of whom he related the humorous address. I have assurance
of the parties from a friend, whose father, a distinguished clergyman in the Scottish Church
at the time, had accurate knowledge of the whole circumstances. The late celebrated Dr. Macknight,
a learned and profound scholar and commentator, was nevertheless, as a preacher, to a great
degree heavy, unrelieved by fancy or imagination; an able writer, but a dull speaker. His colleague,
Dr. Henry, well known as the author of a History of England, was, on the other hand, a man
of great humour, and could not resist a joke when the temptation came upon him. On one occasion
when coming to church, Dr. Macknight had been caught in a shower of rain, and entered the vestry
soaked with wet. Every means were used to relieve him from his discomfort; but as the time
drew on for divine service he became much distressed, and ejaculated over and over, "Oh, I
wush that I was dry; do you think I'm dry? do you think I'm dry eneuch noo?" His jocose colleague
could resist no longer, but, patting him on the shoulder, comforted him with the sly assurance,
"Bide a wee, Doctor, and ye'se be dry eneuch when ye get into the pu'pit."

Another quaint remark of the facetious doctor to his more formal colleague has been preserved
by friends of the family. Dr. Henry, who with all his pleasantry and abilities, had himself
as little popularity in the pulpit as his coadjutor, had been remarking to Dr. Macknight what
a blessing it was that they were two colleagues in one charge, and continued dwelling on the
subject so long, that Dr. Macknight, not quite pleased at the frequent reiteration of the remark,
said that it certainly was a great pleasure to himself, but he did not see what great benefit
it might be to the world. "Ah," said Dr. Henry, "an it hadna been for that, there wad hae been
twa toom[179] kirks this day." Lord Cockburn tells a characteristic anecdote of Dr. Henry's
behaviour the last day of his life. I am indebted to a gentleman, himself also a distinguished
member of the Scottish Church, for an authentic anecdote of this learned divine, and which
occurred whilst Dr. Macknight was the minister of Maybole. One of his parishioners, a well-known
humorous blacksmith of the parish, who, no doubt, thought that the Doctor's learned books were
rather a waste of time and labour for a country pastor, was asked if his minister was at home.
The Doctor was then busy bringing out his laborious and valuable work, his Harmony of the Four
Gospels. "Na, he's gane to Edinburgh on a verra useless job." On being asked what this useless
work might be which engaged his pastor's time and attention, he answered, "He's gane to mak
four men agree wha ne'er cast oot." The good-humoured and candid answer of a learned and rather
long-winded preacher of the old school always appeared to me quite charming. The good man was
far from being a popular preacher, and yet he could not reduce his discourses below the hour
and a half. On being asked, as a gentle hint of their possibly needless length, if he did not
feel tired after preaching so long, he replied, "Na, na, I'm no tired;" adding, however, with
much naïveté, "But, Lord, how tired the fowk whiles are."

The late good kind-hearted Dr. David Dickson was fond of telling a story of a Scottish termagant
of the days before kirk-session discipline had passed away. A couple were brought before the
court, and Janet, the wife, was charged with violent and undutiful conduct, and with wounding
her husband by throwing a three-legged stool at his head. The minister rebuked her conduct,
and pointed out its grievous character, by explaining that just as Christ was head of his Church,
so the husband was head of the wife; and therefore in assaulting him, she had in fact injured
her own body. "Weel," she replied, "it's come to a fine pass gin a wife canna kame her ain
head;" "Ay, but, Janet," rejoined the minister, "a three-legged stool is a thief-like bane-kame
to scart yer ain head wi'!"

The following is a dry Scottish case, of a minister's wife quietly "kaming her husband's head."
Mr. Mair, a Scotch minister, was rather short-tempered, and had a wife named Rebecca, whom
for brevity's sake he addressed as "Becky." He kept a diary, and among other entries, this
one was very frequent--"Becky and I had a rippet, for which I desire to be humble." A gentleman
who had been on a visit to the minister went to Edinburgh, and told the story to a minister
and his wife there; when the lady replied "Weel, he must have been an excellent man, Mr. Mair.
My husband and I sometimes too have 'rippets,' but catch him if he's ever humble."

Our object in bringing up and recording anecdotes of this kind is to elucidate the sort of
humour we refer to, and to show it as a humour of past times. A modern clergyman could hardly
adopt the tone and manner of the older class of ministers--men not less useful and beloved,
on account of their odd Scottish humour, which indeed suited their time. Could a clergyman,
for instance, now come off from the trying position in which we have heard of a northern minister
being placed, and by the same way through which he extricated himself with much good nature
and quiet sarcasm? A young man, sitting opposite to him in the front of the gallery, had been
up late on the previous night, and had stuffed the cards with which he had been occupied into
his coat pocket. Forgetting the circumstance, he pulled out his handkerchief, and the cards
all flew about. The minister simply looked at him, and remarked, "Eh, man, your psalm-buik
has been ill bund."

An admirable story of a quiet pulpit rebuke is traditionary in Fife, and is told of Mr. Shirra,
a Seceding minister of Kirkcaldy, a man still well remembered by some of the older generation
for many excellent and some eccentric qualities. A young officer of a volunteer corps on duty
in the place, very proud of his fresh uniform, had come to Mr. Shirra's church, and walked
about as if looking for a seat, but in fact to show off his dress, which he saw was attracting
attention from some of the less grave members of the congregation. He came to his place, however,
rather quickly, on Mr. Shirra quietly remonstrating, "O man, will ye sit doun, and we'll see
your new breeks when the kirk's dune." This same Mr. Shirra was well known from his quaint,
and, as it were, parenthetical comments which he introduced in his reading of Scripture; as,
for example, on reading from the 116th Psalm, "I said in my haste all men are liars," he quietly
observed, "Indeed, Dauvid, my man, an' ye had been i' this parish ye might hae said it at your
leisure."

There was something even still more pungent in the incidental remark of a good man, in the
course of his sermon, who had in a country place taken to preaching out of doors in the summer
afternoons. He used to collect the people as they were taking air by the side of a stream outside
the village. On one occasion he had unfortunately taken his place on a bank, and fixed himself
on an ants' nest. The active habits of those little creatures soon made the position of the
intruder upon their domain very uncomfortable; and, afraid that his audience might observe
something of this discomfort in his manner, he apologised by the remark--"Brethren, though
I hope I have the word of God in my mouth, I think the deil himself has gotten into my breeks."

There was often no doubt a sharp conflict of wits when some of these humorist ministers came
into collision with members of their flocks who were also humorists. Of this nature is the
following anecdote, which I am assured is genuine:--A minister in the north was taking to task
one of his hearers who was a frequent defaulter, and was reproaching him as a habitual absentee
from public worship. The accused vindicated himself on the plea of a dislike to long sermons.
"'Deed, man," said the reverend monitor, a little nettled at the insinuation thrown out against
himself, "if ye dinna mend, ye may land yersell where ye'll no be troubled wi' mony sermons
either lang or short." "Weel, aiblins sae," retorted John, "but that mayna be for want o' ministers."

An answer to another clergyman, Mr. Shireff, parochial minister of St. Ninian's, is indicative
of Scottish and really clever wit. One of the members of his church was John Henderson or Anderson--a
very decent douce shoemaker--and who left the church and joined the Independents, who had a
meeting in Stirling. Some time afterwards, when Mr. Shireff met John on the road, he said,
"And so, John, I understand you have become an Independent?" "'Deed, sir," replied John, "that's
true." "Oh, John," said the minister, "I'm sure you ken that a rowin' (rolling) stane gathers
nae fog" (moss). "Ay," said John, "that's true too; but can ye tell me what guid the fog does
to the stane?" Mr. Shireff himself afterwards became a Baptist. The wit, however, was all in
favour of the minister in the following:--

Dr. Gilchrist, formerly of the East Parish of Greenock, and who died minister of the Canongate,
Edinburgh, received an intimation of one of his hearers who had been exceedingly irregular
in his attendance that he had taken seats in an Episcopal chapel. One day soon after, he met
his former parishioner, who told him candidly that he had "changed his religion." "Indeed,"
said the Doctor quietly; "how's that? I ne'er heard ye had ony." It was this same Dr. Gilchrist
who gave the well-known quiet but forcible rebuke to a young minister whom he considered rather
conceited and fond of putting forward his own doings, and who was to officiate in the Doctor's
church. He explained to him the mode in which he usually conducted the service, and stated
that he always finished the prayer before the sermon with the Lord's Prayer. The young minister
demurred at this, and asked if he "might not introduce any other short prayer?" "Ou ay," was
the Doctor's quiet reply, "gif ye can gie us onything better."

There is a story current of a sharp hit at the pretensions of a minister who required a little
set down. The scene was on a Monday by a burn near Inverness. A stranger is fishing by a burn-side
one Monday morning, when the parish minister accosts him from the other side of the stream
thus:--"Good sport?" "Not very." "I am also an angler," but, pompously, "I am a fisher of men."
"Are you always successful?" "Not very." "So I guessed, as I keeked into your creel[180] yesterday."

At Banchory, on Deeside, some of the criticisms and remarks on sermons were very quaint and
characteristic. My cousin had asked the Leys grieve what he thought of a young man's preaching,
who had been more successful in appropriating the words than the ideas of Dr. Chalmers. He
drily answered, "Ou, Sir Thomas, just a floorish o' the surface." But the same hearer bore
this unequivocal testimony to another preacher whom he really admired. He was asked if he did
not think the sermon long: "Na, I should nae hae thocht it lang an' I'd been sitting on thorns."

I think the following is about as good a sample of what we call Scotch "pawky" as any I know:--A
countryman had lost his wife and a favourite cow on the same day. His friends consoled him
for the loss of the wife; and being highly respectable, several hints and offers were made
towards getting another for him. "Ou ay," he at length replied; "you're a' keen aneuch to get
me anither wife, but no yin o' ye offers to gie me anither coo."

The following anecdotes, collected from different contributors, are fair samples of the quaint
and original character of Scottish ways and expressions, now becoming more and more matters
of reminiscence:--A poor man came to his minister for the purpose of intimating his intention
of being married. As he expressed, however, some doubts on the subject, and seemed to hesitate,
the minister asked him if there were any doubts about his being accepted. No, that was not
the difficulty; but he expressed a fear that it might not be altogether suitable, and he asked
whether, if he were once married, he could not (in case of unsuitability and unhappiness) get
unmarried. The clergyman assured him that it was impossible; if he married, it must be for
better and worse; that he could not go back upon the step. So thus instructed he went away.
After a time he returned, and said he had made up his mind to try the experiment, and he came
and was married. Ere long he came back very disconsolate, and declared it would not do at all;
that he was quite miserable, and begged to be unmarried. The minister assured him that was
out of the question, and urged him to put away the notion of anything so absurd. The man insisted
that the marriage could not hold good, for the wife was "waur than the deevil." The minister
demurred, saying that it was quite impossible. "'Deed, sir," said the poor man, "the Bible
tells ye that if ye resist the deil he flees frae ye, but if ye resist her she flees at ye."

A faithful minister of the gospel, being one day engaged in visiting some members of his flock,
came to the door of a house where his gentle tapping could not be heard for the noise of contention
within. After waiting a little he opened the door, and walked in, saying, with an authoritative
voice, "I should like to know who is the head of this house." "Weel, sir," said the husband
and father, "if ye sit doun a wee, we'll maybe be able to tell ye, for we're just trying to
settle that point."

I have received from my kind correspondent, Rev. Mr. Hogg of Kirkmahoe, the following most
amusing account of a passage-at-arms between a minister and "minister's man," both of them
of the old school. The minister of a parish in Dumfriesshire had a man who had long and faithfully
served at the manse. During the minister's absence, a ploughing match came off in the district,
and the man, feeling the old spirit return with the force of former days, wished to enter the
lists, and go in for a prize, which he did, and gained the fifth prize. The minister, on his
return home, and glancing at the local newspaper, saw the report of the match, and the name
of his own man in the prize-list. Being of a crusty temper, he rang the bell in fury, and summoned
John, when the following colloquy took place:--"John, how is this? who gave you leave to go
to the ploughing-match?" "You were not at hame, sir." "Well, you should have written to me."
"I didn't think it was worth while, sir, as we had our ain ploughing forrit[181]." "That may
be; but why were you not higher in the prize-list? I'm ashamed of you, and you ought to be
ashamed of yourself for being so far behind." John's patience had given way, and, in his haste
he burst forth, "Indeed, I'm thinking, sir, that if ye were at a preaching match, and five-and-thirty
in the field, ye wadna come in for onything, let a-be for a fift'."

Stories of humorous encounters between ministers and their hearers are numerous, and though
often seasoned with dry and caustic humour, they never indicate appearance of bitterness or
ill-feeling between the parties. As an example, a clergyman thought his people were making
rather an unconscionable objection to his using a MS. in delivering his sermon. They urged,
"What gars ye tak up your bit papers to the pu'pit?" He replied that it was best, for really
he could not remember his sermon, and must have his papers. "Weel, weel, minister, then dinna
expect that we can remember them."

Some of these encounters arise out of the old question of sleeping in church. For example--"I
see, James, that you tak a bit nap in the kirk," said a minister to one of his people; "can
ye no tak a mull with you? and when you become heavy an extra pinch would keep you up." "Maybe
it wad," said James, "but pit you the sneeshin intil your sermon, minister, and maybe that'll
serve the same purpose." As a specimen of the matter-of-fact view of religious questions frequently
recorded of older ministers, let me adduce a well-authenticated account of a minister in a
far up-hill parish in Deeside. Returning thanks one Sabbath for the excellent harvest, he began
as usual, "O Lord, we thank thee," etc., and went on to mention its abundance, and its safe
ingathering; but, feeling anxious to be quite candid and scrupulously truthful, added, "all
except a few sma' bitties at Birse no worth o' mentioning."

A Scotch preacher, a man of large stature, being sent to officiate one Sunday at a country
parish, was accommodated at night, in the manse, in a very diminutive closet--the usual best
bedroom, appropriated to strangers, being otherwise occupied. "Is this the bedroom?" he said,
starting back in amazement. "'Deed ay, sir, this is the prophets' chalmer." "It maun be for
the minor prophets, then," was the quiet reply.

Elders of the kirk, no doubt, frequently partook of the original and humorous character of
ministers and others, their contemporaries; and amusing scenes must have passed, and good Scotch
sayings been said, where they were concerned. Dr. Chalmers used to repeat one of these sayings
of an elder with great delight. The Doctor associated with the anecdote the name of Lady Glenorchy
and the church which she endowed; but I am assured that the person was Lady Elizabeth Cunninghame,
sister of Archibald, eleventh Earl of Eglinton, and wife of Sir John Cunninghame, Bart., of
Caprington, near Kilmarnock. It seems her ladyship had, for some reason, taken offence at the
proceedings of the Caprington parochial authorities, and a result of which was that she ceased
putting her usual liberal offering into the plate at the door. This had gone on for some time,
till one of the elders, of less forbearing character than the others, took his turn at the
plate. Lady Elizabeth as usual passed by without a contribution, but made a formal courtsey
to the elder at the plate, and sailed up the aisle. The good man was determined not to let
her pass so easily, so he quickly followed her, and urged the remonstrance: "Gie us mair o'
your siller and less o' your mainners, my lady Betty." My kind correspondent, Rev. Mr. Agnew,
supplies me with an amusing pendant to this anecdote:--At a great church meeting, Dr. Chalmers
had told this story with much effect when Lord Galloway was in the chair. After the meeting,
Dr. Chalmers, and many who had been present, dined at his lordship's hospitable table. After
dinner, when the morning meeting was discussed, Lord Galloway addressed Dr. Chalmers on the
subject of this story and, as if not quite pleased at its being introduced, said, "Do you know,
Doctor, the lady of whom you told the story of the elder is a near relation of mine?" Dr. Chalmers,
with real or seeming simplicity, answered, "No, my Lord, I did not; but next time I tell the
story I can mention the fact." As a pendant to the elder's disclaimer of "mainners" on the
part of a lady of rank, I may add an authentic anecdote of a very blunt and unpolished Kincardineshire
laird, expressing the same disclaimer of mainners on the part of a servant, but in a far rougher
form of speech. He had been talking with a man who came to offer for his service as a butler.
But the laird soon found he was far too grand a gentleman for his service, and became chafed
with his requiring so many things as conditions of coming; till, on his dismissal, when the
man was bowing and scraping to show how genteel he could be, he lost all patience, and roared
out, "Get out, ye fule; gie us nane o' your mainners here."

Of an eccentric and eloquent professor and divine of a northern Scottish university, there
are numerous and extraordinary traditionary anecdotes. I have received an account of some of
these anecdotes from the kind communication of an eminent Scottish clergyman, who was himself
in early days his frequent hearer. The stories told of the strange observations and allusions
which he introduced into his pulpit discourses almost surpass belief. For many reasons, they
are not suitable to the nature of this publication, still less could they be tolerated in any
pulpit administration now, although familiar with his contemporaries. The remarkable circumstance,
however, connected with these eccentricities was, that he introduced them with the utmost gravity,
and oftentimes, after he had delivered them, pursued his subject with great earnestness and
eloquence, as if he had said nothing uncommon. One saying of the professor, however, out of
the pulpit, is too good to be omitted, and may be recorded without violation of propriety.
He happened to meet at the house of a lawyer, whom he considered rather a man of sharp practice,
and for whom he had no great favour, two of his own parishioners. The lawyer jocularly and
ungraciously put the question; "Doctor, these are members of your flock; may I ask, do you
look upon them as white sheep or as black sheep?" "I don't know," answered the professor drily,
"whether they are black or white sheep, but I know that if they are long here they are pretty
sure to be fleeced."

It was a pungent answer given by a Free Kirk member who had deserted his colours and returned
to the old faith. A short time after the Disruption, the Free Church minister chanced to meet
him who had then left him and returned to the Established Church. The minister bluntly accosted
him--"Ay, man, John, an' ye've left us; what micht be your reason for that? Did ye think it
wasna a guid road we was gaun?" "Ou, I daursay it was a guid eneuch road and a braw road; but,
O minister, the tolls were unco high."

The following story I received from a member of the Penicuik family:--Dr. Ritchie, who died
minister of St. Andrews, Edinburgh, was, when a young man, tutor to Sir G. Clerk and his brothers.
Whilst with them, the clergyman of the parish became unable, from infirmity and illness, to
do his duty, and Mr. Ritchie was appointed interim assistant. He was an active young man, and
during his residence in the country had become fond of fishing, and was a good shot. When the
grouse-shooting came round, his pupils happened to be laid up with a fever, so Mr. Ritchie
had all the shooting to himself. One day he walked over the moor so far that he became quite
weary and footsore. On returning home he went into a cottage, where the good woman received
him kindly, gave him water for his feet, and refreshment. In the course of conversation, he
told her he was acting as assistant minister of the parish, and he explained how far he had
travelled in pursuit of game, how weary he was, and how completely knocked up he was. "Weel,
sir, I dinna doubt ye maun be sair travelled and tired wi' your walk." And then she added,
with sly reference to his profession, "'Deed, sir, I'm thinkin' ye micht hae travelled frae
Genesis to Revelation and no been sae forfauchten[182]."

Scotch people in general are, like this old woman, very jealous, as might be expected, of ministers
joining the sportsman to their pastoral character. A proposal for the appointment of a minister
to a particular parish, who was known in the country as a capital shot, called forth a rather
neat Scottish pun, from an old woman of the parish, who significantly observed, "'Deed, Kilpaatrick
would hae been a mair appropriate place for him." Paatrick is Scotch for partridge.

I cannot do better in regard to the three following anecdotes of the late Professor Gillespie
of St. Andrews, than give them to my readers in the words with which Dr. Lindsay Alexander
kindly communicated them to me.

"In the Cornhill Magazine for March 1860, in an article on Student Life in Scotland, there
is an anecdote of the late Professor Gillespie of St. Andrews, which is told in such a way
as to miss the point and humour of the story. The correct version, as I have heard it from
the professor himself, is this: Having employed the village carpenter to put a frame round
a dial at the manse of Cults, where he was a minister, he received from the man a bill to the
following effect:--'To fencing the deil, 5s. 6d.' 'When I paid him,' said the professor, 'I
could not help saying, John, this is rather more than I counted on; but I haven't a word to
say. I get somewhere about two hundred a year for fencing the deil, and I'm afraid I don't
do it half so effectually as you've done.'"

"Whilst I am writing, another of the many stories of the learned and facetious professor rises
in my mind. There was a worthy old woman at Cults whose place in church was what is commonly
called the Lateran; a kind of small gallery at the top of the pulpit steps. She was a most
regular attender, but as regularly fell asleep during sermon, of which fault the preacher had
sometimes audible intimation. It was observed, however, that though Janet always slept during
her own pastor's discourse, she could be attentive enough when she pleased, and especially
was she alert when some young preacher occupied the pulpit. A little piqued, perhaps, at this,
Mr. Gillespie said to her one day, 'Janet, I think you hardly behave very respectfully to your
own minister in one respect.' 'Me, sir!' exclaimed Janet, 'I wad like to see ony man, no tae
say woman, by yoursell, say that o' me! what can you mean, sir?' 'Weel, Janet, ye ken when
I preach you're almost always fast asleep before I've well given out my text; but when any
of these young men from St. Andrews preach for me, I see you never sleep a wink. Now, that's
what I call no using me as you should do.' 'Hoot, sir,' was the reply, 'is that a'? I'll sune
tell you the reason o' that. When you preach, we a' ken the word o' God's safe in your hands;
but when thae young birkies tak it in haun, my certie, but it taks us a' to look after them[183].'

"I am tempted to subjoin another. In the Humanity Class, one day, a youth who was rather fond
of showing off his powers of language, translated Hor. Od. iii., 3, 61, 62, somewhat thus:--'The
fortunes of Troy renascent under sorrowful omen shall be repeated with sad catastrophe.' 'Catastrophe!'
cried the professor. 'Catastrophe, Mr. ----, that's Greek. Give us it in plain English, if
you please.' Thus suddenly pulled down from his high horse, the student effected his retreat
with a rather lame and impotent version. 'Now,' said the professor, his little sharp eyes twinkling
with fun, 'that brings to my recollection what once happened to a friend of mine, a minister
in the country. Being a scholarly man he was sometimes betrayed into the use of words in the
pulpit which the people were not likely to understand; but being very conscientious, he never
detected himself in this, without pausing to give the meaning of the word he had used, and
sometimes his extempore explanations of very fine words were a little like what we have just
had from Mr. ----, rather too flat and commonplace. On one occasion he allowed this very word
'catastrophe' to drop from him, on which he immediately added, 'that, you know, my friends,
means the end of a thing.' Next day, as he was riding through his parish, some mischievous
youth succeeded in fastening a bunch of furze to his horse's tail--a trick which, had the animal
been skittish, might have exposed the worthy pastor's horsemanship to too severe a trial, but
which happily had no effect whatever on the sober-minded and respectable quadruped which he
bestrode. On, therefore, he quietly jogged, utterly unconscious of the addition that had been
made to his horse's caudal region, until, as he was passing some cottages, he was arrested
by the shrill voice of an old woman exclaiming, 'Heh, sir! Heh, sir! there's a whun-buss at
your horse's catawstrophe!'"

I have several times adverted to the subject of epigrams. A clever impromptu of this class
has been recorded as given by a judge's lady in reply to one made by the witty Henry Erskine
at a dinner party at Lord Armadale's. When a bottle of claret was called for, port was brought
in by mistake. A second time claret was sent for, and a second time the same mistake occurred.
Henry Erskine addressed the host in an impromptu, which was meant as a parody on the well-known
Scottish song, "My Jo, Janet"--

     "Kind sir, it's for your courtesie
       When I come here to dine, sir,
     For the love ye bear to me,
       Gie me the claret wine, sir."

To which Mrs. Honeyman retorted--

     "Drink the port, the claret's dear,
       Erskine, Erskine;
     Yell get fou on't, never fear,
       My jo, Erskine."

Some of my younger readers may not be familiar with the epigram of John Home, author of the
tragedy of "Douglas." The lines were great favourites with Sir Walter Scott, who delighted
in repeating them. Home was very partial to claret, and could not bear port. He was exceedingly
indignant when the Government laid a tax upon claret, having previously long connived at its
introduction into Scotland under very mitigated duties.

There is a curious story traditionary in some families connected with the nobleman who is the
subject of it, which, I am assured, is true, and further, that it has never yet appeared in
print. The story is, therefore, a "Scottish reminiscence," and, as such, deserves a place here.
The Earl of Lauderdale was so ill as to cause great alarm to his friends, and perplexity to
his physicians. One distressing symptom was a total absence of sleep, and the medical men declared
their opinion, that without sleep being induced he could not recover. His son, a queer eccentric-looking
boy, who was considered not entirely right in his mind but somewhat "daft" and who accordingly
had had little attention paid to his education, was sitting under the table, and cried out,
"Sen' for that preachin' man frae Livingstone, for faither aye sleeps in the kirk." One of
the doctors thought this hint worth attending to. The experiment of "getting a minister till
him" succeeded, and, sleep coming on, he recovered. The Earl, out of gratitude for this benefit,
took more notice of his son, paid attention to his education, and that boy became the Duke
of Lauderdale, afterwards so famous or infamous in his country's history.

The following very amusing anecdote, although it belongs more properly to the division on peculiarities
of Scottish phraseology, I give in the words of a correspondent who received it from the parties
with whom it originated. About twenty years ago, he was paying a visit to a cousin, married
to a Liverpool merchant of some standing. The husband had lately had a visit from his aged
father, who formerly followed the occupation of farming in Stirlingshire, and who had probably
never been out of Scotland before in his life. The son, finding his father rather de trop in
his office, one day persuaded him to cross the ferry over the Mersey, and inspect the harvesting,
then in full operation, on the Cheshire side. On landing, he approached a young woman reaping
with the sickle in a field of oats, when the following dialogue ensued:--

Farmer.--Lassie, are yer aits muckle bookit[184] th' year?

Reaper.--What say'n yo?

Farmer.--I was speiring gif yer aits are muckle bookit th' year!

Reaper (in amazement).--I dunnot know what yo' say'n.

Farmer (in equal astonishment).--Gude--safe--us,--do ye no understaan gude plain English?--are--yer--aits--muckle--bookit?

Reaper decamps to her nearest companion, saying that was a madman, while he shouted in great
wrath, "They were naething else than a set o' ignorant pock-puddings."

An English tourist visited Arran, and being a keen disciple of Izaak Walton, was arranging
to have a day's good sport. Being told that the cleg, or horse-fly, would suit his purpose
admirably for lure, he addressed himself to Christy, the Highland servant-girl:--"I say, my
girl, can you get me some horse-flies?" Christy looked stupid, and he repeated his question.
Finding that she did not yet comprehend him, he exclaimed, "Why, girl, did you never see a
horse-fly?" "Naa, sir," said the girl, "but A wance saw a coo jump ower a preshipice."

The following anecdote is highly illustrative of the thoroughly attached old family serving-man.
A correspondent sends it as told to him by an old schoolfellow of Sir Walter Scott's at Fraser
and Adam's class, High School:--

One of the lairds of Abercairnie proposed to go out, on the occasion of one of the risings
for the Stuarts, in the '15 or '45--but this was not with the will of his old serving-man,
who, when Abercairnie was pulling on his boots, preparing to go, overturned a kettle of boiling
water upon his legs, so as to disable him from joining his friends--saying, "Tak that--let
them fecht wha like; stay ye at hame and be laird o' Abercairnie."

A story illustrative of a union of polite courtesy with rough and violent ebullition of temper
common in the old Scottish character, is well known in the Lothian family. William Henry, fourth
Marquis of Lothian, had for his guest at dinner an old countess to whom he wished to show particular
respect and attention[185]. After a very complimentary reception, he put on his white gloves
to hand her down stairs, led her up to the upper end of the table, bowed, and retired to his
own place. This I am assured was the usual custom with the chief lady guest by persons who
themselves remember it. After all were seated, the Marquis addressed the lady, "Madam, may
I have the honour and happiness of helping your ladyship to some fish?" But he got no answer,
for the poor woman was deaf as a post, and did not hear him. After a pause, but still in the
most courteous accents, "Madam, have I your ladyship's permission to send you some fish?" Then
a little quicker, "Is your Ladyship inclined to take fish?" Very quick, and rather peremptory,
"Madam, do ye choice fish?" At last the thunder burst, to everybody's consternation, with a
loud thump on the table and stamp on the floor: "Con--found ye, will ye have any fish?" I am
afraid the exclamation might have been even of a more pungent character.

A correspondent has kindly enabled me to add a reminiscence and anecdote of a type of Scottish
character now nearly extinct.--I mean the old Scottish military officer of the wars of Holland
and the Low Countries. I give them in his own words:--"My father, the late Rev. Dr. Bethune,
minister of Dornoch, was on friendly terms with a fine old soldier, the late Colonel Alexander
Sutherland of Calmaly and Braegrudy, in Sutherlandshire, who was lieutenant-colonel of the
'Local Militia,' and who used occasionally, in his word of command, to break out with a Gaelic
phrase to the men, much to the amusement of bystanders. He called his charger, a high-boned
not overfed animal, Cadaver--a play upon accents, for he was a good classical scholar, and
fond of quoting the Latin poets. But he had no relish nor respect for the 'Modern languages,'
particularly for that of our French neighbours, whom he looked upon as 'hereditary' enemies!
My father and the colonel were both politicians, as well as scholars. Reading a newspaper article
in his presence one day, my father stopped short, handing the paper to him, and said, 'Colonel,
here is a French quotation, which you can translate better than I can,' 'No, sir!' said the
colonel, 'I never learnt the language of the scoundrels!!!' The colonel was known as 'Col.
Sandy Sutherland,' and the men always called him Colonel Sandy. He was a splendid specimen
of the hale veteran, with a stentorian voice, and the last queue I remember to have seen."

A correspondent kindly sends me from Aberdeenshire a humorous story, very much of the same
sort as that of Colonel Erskine's servant, who considerately suggested to his master that "maybe
an aith might relieve him[186]." My correspondent heard the story from the late Bishop Skinner.

It was among the experiences of his father, Bishop John Skinner. While making some pastoral
visits in the neighbourhood of the town (Aberdeen), the Bishop took occasion to step into the
cottage of two humble parishioners, a man and his wife, who cultivated a little croft. No one
was within; but as the door was only on the latch, the Bishop knew that the worthy couple could
not be far distant. He therefore stepped in the direction of the outhouses, and found them
both in the barn winnowing corn, in the primitive way, with "riddles," betwixt two open doors.
On the Bishop making his appearance, the honest man ceased his winnowing operations, and in
the gladness of his heart stepped briskly forward to welcome his pastor; but in his haste he
trod upon the rim of the riddle, which rebounded with great force against one of his shins.
The accident made him suddenly pull up; and, instead of completing the reception, he stood
vigorously rubbing the injured limb; and, not daring in such a venerable presence to give vent
to the customary strong ejaculations, kept twisting his face into all sorts of grimaces. As
was natural, the Bishop went forward, uttering the usual formulas of condolence and sympathy,
the patient, meanwhile, continuing his rubbings and his silent but expressive contortions.
At last Janet came to the rescue; and, clapping the Bishop coaxingly on the back, said, "Noo,
Bishop, jist gang ye yir waas into the hoose, an' we'll follow fan he's had time to curse a
fyllie, an' I'se warran' he'll seen be weel eneuch!"

The following might have been added as examples of the dry humorous manner in which our countrymen
and countrywomen sometimes treat matters with which they have to deal, even when serious ones:--

An itinerant vendor of wood in Aberdeen having been asked how his wife was, replied, "Oh, she's
fine; I hae taen her tae Banchory;" and on it being innocently remarked that the change of
air would do her good, he looked up, and, with a half smile, said, "Hoot, she's i' the kirk-yard."

The well-known aversion of the Scotch to hearing read sermons has often led to amusing occurrences.
One pastor, in a country district, who was much respected by his people, but who, nevertheless,
were never quite reconciled to his paper in the pulpit, found himself on one occasion in an
awkward predicament, from this same paper question. One Sabbath afternoon, having exhausted
both firstly and secondly, he came to the termination of his discourse; but, unfortunately,
the manuscript was wanting. In vain efforts to seek the missing paper, he repeated "thirdly
and lastly" ad nauseam to his hearers. At last one, cooler than the others, rose, and nodding
to the minister, observed, "'Deed, sir, If I'm no mista'en, I saw 'thirdly and lastly' fa'
ower the poopit stairs;" evidently enjoying the disappearance of so important a part of the
obnoxious document.

This prejudice was indeed some years since in Scotland quite inveterate. The following anecdote
has been kindly sent to me from Memoirs of Charles Young, lately published by his son:--

"I have a distinct recollection, one Sunday when I was living at Cults, and when a stranger
was officiating for Dr. Gillespie, observing that he had not proceeded five minutes with his
'discourse,' before there was a general commotion and stampedo. The exodus at last became so
serious, that, conceiving something to be wrong, probably a fire in the manse, I caught the
infection, and eagerly inquired of the first person I encountered in the churchyard what was
the matter, and was told, with an expression of sovereign scorn and disgust--'Losh keep ye,
young man! Hae ye eyes, and see not? Hae ye ears, and hear not? The man reads!"

On one occasion, however, even this prejudice gave way before the power of the most eloquent
preacher that Scotland ever heard, or perhaps that the world ever heard. A shrewd old Fife
hearer of sermons had been objecting, in the usual exaggerated language, against reading sermons
in the pulpit. A gentleman urged the case of Dr. Chalmers, in defence of the practice. He used
his paper in preaching rigidly, and yet with what an effect he read! All the objector could
reply to this was, "Ah, but it's fell[187] reading yon."

The two following are from a correspondent who heard them told by the late Dr. Barclay the
anatomist, well known for his own dry Scottish humour.

A country laird, at his death, left his property in equal shares to his two sons, who continued
to live very amicably together for many years. At length one said to the other, "Tam, we're
gettin' auld now, you'll tak a wife, and when I dee you'll get my share o' the grund." "Na,
John, you're the youngest and maist active, you'll tak a wife, and when I dee you'll get my
share." "Od," says John, "Tam, that's jist the way wi' you when there's ony fash or trouble.
The deevil a thing you'll do at a'."

A country clergyman, who was not on the most friendly terms with one of his heritors who resided
in Stirling, and who had annoyed the minister by delay in paying him his teinds (or tithe),
found it necessary to make the laird understand that his proportion of stipend must be paid
so soon as it became due. The payment came next term punctual to the time. When the messenger
was introduced to the minister, he asked who he was, remarking that he thought he had seen
him before. "I am the hangman of Stirling, sir." "Oh, just so, take a seat till I write you
a receipt." It was evident that the laird had chosen this medium of communication with the
minister as an affront, and to show his spite. The minister, however, turned the tables upon
him, sending back an acknowledgment for the payment in these terms:--"Received from Mr. ----,
by the hands of the hangman of Stirling, his doer[188], the sum of," etc. etc.

The following story of pulpit criticism by a beadle used to be told, I am assured, by the late
Rev. Dr. Andrew Thomson:--

A clergyman in the country had a stranger preaching for him one day, and meeting his beadle,
he said to him, "Well, Saunders, how did you like the sermon to-day?" "I watna, sir; it was
rather ower plain and simple for me. I like thae sermons best that jumbles the joodgment and
confoonds the sense. Od, sir, I never saw ane that could come up to yoursell at that."

The epithet "canny" has frequently been applied to our countrymen, not in a severe or invidious
spirit, but as indicating a due regard to personal interest and safety. In the larger edition
of Jamieson (see edition of 1840) I find there are no fewer than eighteen meanings given of
this word. The following extract from a provincial paper, which has been sent me, will furnish
a good illustration. It is headed, the "PROPERTY QUALIFICATION," and goes on--"Give a chartist
a large estate, and a copious supply of ready money, and you make a Conservative of him. He
can then see the other side of the moon, which he could never see before. Once, a determined
Radical in Scotland, named Davy Armstrong, left his native village; and many years afterwards,
an old fellow grumbler met him, and commenced the old song. Davy shook his head. His friend
was astonished, and soon perceived that Davy was no longer a grumbler, but a rank Tory. Wondering
at the change, he was desirous of knowing the reason. Davy quietly and laconically replied--'I've
a coo (cow) noo.'"

But even still more "canny" was the eye to the main chance in an Aberdonian fellow-countryman,
communicated in the following pleasant terms from a Nairn correspondent:--"I have just been
reading your delightful 'Reminiscences,' which has brought to my recollection a story I used
to hear my father tell. It was thus:--A countryman in a remote part of Aberdeenshire having
got a newly-coined sovereign in the days when such a thing was seldom seen in his part of the
country, went about showing it to his friends and neighbours for the charge of one penny each
sight. Evil days, however, unfortunately overtook him, and he was obliged to part with his
loved coin. Soon after, a neighbour called on him, and asked a sight of his sovereign, at the
same time tendering a penny. 'Ah, man,' says he, 'it's gane; but I'll lat ye see the cloutie
it was rowt in for a bawbee.'"

There was something very simple-minded in the manner in which a parishioner announced his canny
care for his supposed interests when he became an elder of the kirk. The story is told of a
man who had got himself installed in the eldership, and, in consequence, had for some time
carried round the ladle for the collections. He had accepted the office of elder because some
wag had made him believe that the remuneration was sixpence each Sunday, with a boll of meal
at New Year's Day. When the time arrived he claimed his meal, but was told he had been hoaxed.
"It may be sae wi' the meal," he said coolly, "but I took care o' the saxpence mysell."

There was a good deal both of the pawky and the canny in the following anecdote, which I have
from an honoured lady of the south of Scotland:--"There was an old man who always rode a donkey
to his work, and tethered him while he worked on the roads, or whatever else it might be. It
was suggested to him by my grandfather that he was suspected of putting it in to feed in the
fields at other people's expense. 'Eh, laird, I could never be tempted to do that, for my cuddy
winna eat onything but nettles and thristles.' One day my grandfather was riding along the
road, when he saw Andrew Leslie at work, and his donkey up to the knees in one of his clover
fields, feeding luxuriously. 'Hollo, Andrew,' said he; 'I thought you told me your cuddy would
eat nothing but nettles and thistles.' 'Ay,' said he, 'but he misbehaved the day; he nearly
kicket me ower his head, sae I pat him in there just to punish him.'"

There is a good deal of the same sort of simple character brought out in the two following.
They were sent to me from Golspie, and are original, as they occurred in my correspondent's
own experience. The one is a capital illustration of thrift, the other of kind feeling for
the friendless, in the Highland character. I give the anecdotes in my correspondent's own words:--A
little boy, some twelve years of age, came to me one day with the following message: "My mother
wants a vomit from you, sir, and she bade me say if it will not be strong enough, she will
send it back." "Oh, Mr. Begg," said a woman to me, for whom I was weighing two grains of calomel
for a child, "dinna be so mean wi' it; it is for a poor faitherless bairn."

The following, from a provincial paper, contains a very amusing recognition of a return which
one of the itinerant race considered himself conscientiously bound to make to his clerical
patron for an alms: "A beggar, while on his rounds one day this week, called on a clergyman
(within two and a half miles of the Cross of Kilmarnock), who, obeying the biblical injunction
of clothing the naked, offered the beggar an old top-coat. It was immediately rolled up, and
the beggar, in going away with it under his arm, thoughtfully (!) remarked, 'I'll hae tae gie
ye a day's hearin' for this na.'"

The natural and self-complacent manner in which the following anecdote brings out in the Highlander
an innate sense of the superiority of Celtic blood is highly characteristic:--A few years ago,
when an English family were visiting in the Highlands, their attention was directed to a child
crying; on their observing to the mother it was cross, she exclaimed--"Na, na, it's nae cross,
for we're baith true Hieland."

The late Mr. Grahame of Garsock, in Strathearn, whose grandson now "is laird himsel," used
to tell, with great unction, some thirty years ago, a story of a neighbour of his own of a
still earlier generation, Drummond of Keltie, who, as it seems, had employed an itinerant tailor
instead of a metropolitan artist. On one occasion a new pair of inexpressibles had been made
for the laird; they were so tight that, after waxing hot and red in the attempt to try them
on, he let out rather savagely at the tailor, who calmly assured him, "It's the fash'n; it's
jist the fash'n." "Eh, ye haveril, is it the fashion for them no to go on?"

An English gentleman writes to me--"We have all heard much of Scotch caution, and I met once
with an instance of it which I think is worth recording, and which I tell as strictly original.
About 1827, I fell into conversation, on board of a Stirling steamer, with a well-dressed middle-aged
man, who told me he was a soldier of the 42d, going on leave. He began to relate the campaigns
he had gone through, and mentioned having been at the siege of St. Sebastian.--'Ah! under Sir
Thomas Graham?' 'Yes, sir; he commanded there.' 'Well,' I said, merely by way of carrying on
the crack, 'and what do you think of him?' Instead of answering, he scanned me several times
from head to foot, and from foot to head, and then said, in a tone of the most diplomatic caution,
'Ye'll perhaps be of the name of Grah'm yersel, sir?' There could hardly be a better example,
either of the circumspection of a real canny Scot, or of the lingering influence of the old
patriarchal feeling, by which 'A name, a word, makes clansmen vassals to their lord.'"

Now when we linger over these old stories, we seem to live at another period, and in such reminiscences
we converse with a generation different from our own. Changes are still going on around us.
They have been going on for some time past. The changes are less striking as society advances,
and we find fewer alterations for us to notice. Probably each generation will have less change
to record than the generation that preceded; still every one who is tolerably advanced in life
must feel that, comparing its beginning and its close, he has witnessed two epochs, and that
in advanced life he looks on a different world from one which he can remember. To elucidate
this fact has been my present object, and in attempting this task I cannot but feel how trifling
and unsatisfactory my remarks must seem to many who have a more enlarged and minute acquaintance
with Scottish life and manners than I have. But I shall be encouraged to hope for a favourable,
or at least an indulgent, sentence upon these Reminiscences, if to any of my readers I shall
have opened a fresh insight into the subject of social changes amongst us. Many causes have
their effect upon the habits and customs of mankind, and of late years such causes have been
greatly multiplied in number and activity. In many persons, and in some who have not altogether
lost their national partialities, there is a general tendency to merge Scottish usages and
Scottish expressions into the English forms, as being more correct and genteel. The facilities
for moving, not merely from place to place in our own country, but from one country to another;
the spread of knowledge and information by means of periodical publications and newspapers;
and the incredibly low prices at which literary works are produced, must have great effects.
Then there is the improved taste in art, which, together with literature, has been taken up
by young men who, fifty, sixty, seventy years ago, or more, would have known no such sources
of interest, or indeed who would have looked upon them as unmanly and effeminate. When first
these pursuits were taken up by our Scottish young men, they excited in the north much amazement,
and, I fear, contempt, as was evinced by a laird of the old school, who, the first time he
saw a young man at the pianoforte, asked, with evident disgust, "Can the creature sew ony?"
evidently putting the accomplishment of playing the pianoforte and the accomplishment of the
needle in the same category.

The greater facility of producing books, prints, and other articles which tend to the comfort
and embellishment of domestic life, must have considerable influence upon the habits and tastes
of a people. I have often thought how much effect might be traced to the single circumstance
of the cheap production of pianofortes. An increased facility of procuring the means of acquaintance
with good works of art and literature acts both as cause and effect. A growing and improved
taste tends to stimulate the production of the best works of art. These, in return, foster
and advance the power of forming a due estimate of art. In the higher department of music,
for example, the cheap rate not only of hearing compositions of the first class, but of possessing
the works of the most eminent composers, must have had influence upon thousands. The principal
oratorios of Handel may be purchased for as many shillings each as they cost pounds years ago.
Indeed, at that time the very names of those immortal works were known only to a few who were
skilled to appreciate their high beauties. Now associations are formed for practising and studying
the choral works of the great masters.

We might indeed adduce many more causes which seem to produce changes of habits, tastes, and
associations, amongst our people. For example, families do not vegetate for years in one retired
spot as they used to do; young men are encouraged to attain accomplishments, and to have other
sources of interest than the field or the bottle. Every one knows, or may know, everything
that is going on through the whole world. There is a tendency in mankind to lose all that is
peculiar, and in nations to part with all that distinguishes them from each other. We hear
of wonderful changes in habits and customs where change seemed impossible. In India and Turkey
even, peculiarities and prejudices are fading away under the influence of time. Amongst ourselves,
no doubt, one circumstance tended greatly to call forth, and, as we may say, to develop, the
peculiar Scotch humour of which we speak--and that was the familiarity of intercourse which
took place between persons in different positions of life. This extended even to an occasional
interchange of words between the minister and the members of his flock during time of service.
I have two anecdotes in illustration of this fact, which I have reason to believe are quite
authentic. In the church of Banchory on Deeside, to which I have referred, a former minister
always preached without book, and being of an absent disposition, he sometimes forgot the head
of discourse on which he was engaged, and got involved in confusion. On one occasion, being
desirous of recalling to his memory the division of his subject, he called out to one of his
elders, a farmer on the estate of Ley, "Bush (the name of his farm), Bush, ye're sleeping."
"Na, sir, I'm no sleeping--I'm listening." "Weel, then, what had I begun to say?" "Oh, ye were
saying so and so." This was enough, and supplied the minister with the thread of his discourse;
and he went on. The other anecdote related to the parish of Cumbernauld, the minister of which
was at the time referred to noted for a very disjointed and rambling style of preaching, without
method or connection. His principal heritor was the Lord Elphinstone of the time, and unfortunately
the minister and the peer were not on good terms, and always ready to annoy each other by sharp
sayings or otherwise. The minister on one occasion had somewhat in this spirit called upon
the beadle to "wauken my Lord Elphinstone," upon which Lord Elphinstone said, "I'm no sleeping,
minister." "Indeed you were, my lord." He again disclaimed the sleeping. So as a test the preacher
asked him, "What I had been saying last then?" "Oh, juist wauken Lord Elphinstone." "Ay, but
what did I say before that?" "Indeed," retorted Lord Elphinstone, "I'll gie ye a guinea if
ye'll tell that yersell, minister." We can hardly imagine the possibility of such scenes now
taking place amongst us in church. It seems as if all men were gradually approximating to a
common type or form in their manners and views of life; oddities are sunk, prominences are
rounded off, sharp features are polished, and all things are becoming smooth and conventional.
The remark, like the effect, is general, and extends to other countries as well as to our own.
But as we have more recently parted with our peculiarities of dialect, oddity, and eccentricity,
it becomes the more amusing to mark our participation in this change, because a period of fifty
years shows here a greater contrast than the same period would show in many other localities.

I have already referred to a custom which prevailed in all the rural parish churches, and which
I remember in my early days at Fettercairn; the custom I mean, now quite obsolete, of the minister,
after pronouncing the blessing, turning to the heritors, who always occupied the front seats
of the gallery, and making low bows to each family. Another custom I recollect:--When the text
had been given out, it was usual for the elder branches of the congregation to hand about their
Bibles amongst the younger members, marking the place, and calling their attention to the passage.
During service another handing about was frequent among the seniors, and that was a circulation
of the sneeshin-mull or snuff-box. Indeed, I have heard of the same practice in an Episcopal
church, and particularly in one case of an ordination, where the bishop took his pinch of snuff,
and handed the mull to go round amongst the clergy assembled for the solemn occasion within
the altar-rails.

Amongst Scottish reminiscences which do not extend beyond our own recollections we may mention
the disappearance of Trinity Church in Edinburgh, which has taken place within the last quarter
of a century. It was founded by Mary of Gueldres, queen of James II. of Scotland, in 1446,
and liberally endowed for a provost, prebendaries, choristers, etc. It was never completed,
but the portions built--viz., choir, transept, and central tower--were amongst the finest specimens
of later Gothic work in Scotland. The pious founder had placed it at the east end of what was
then the North Loch. She chose her own church for the resting-place of her remains as a sanctuary
of safety and repose. A railway parliamentary bill, however, overrides founder's intentions
and Episcopal consecrations. Where once stood the beautiful church of the Holy Trinity, where
once the "pealing organ" and the "full-voiced choir" were daily heard "in service high and
anthems clear"--where for 400 years slept the ashes of a Scottish Queen--now resound the noise
and turmoil of a railway station.

But we have another example of the uncertainty of all earthly concerns, and one which supplies
a Scottish reminiscence belonging to the last seventy years. Wilhelmina, Viscountess Glenorchy,
during her lifetime, built and endowed a church for two ministers, who were provided with very
handsome incomes. She died 17th July 1786, and was buried on the 24th July, aged 44. Her interment
took place, by her own direction, in the church she had founded, immediately in front of the
pulpit; and she fixed upon that spot as a place of security and safety, where her mortal remains
might rest in peace till the morning of the resurrection. But alas for the uncertainty of all
earthly plans and projects for the future!--the iron road came on its reckless course and swept
the church away. The site was required for the North British Railway, which passed directly
over the spot where Lady Glenorchy had been buried. Her remains were accordingly disinterred
24th December 1844; and the trustees of the church, not having yet erected a new one, deposited
the body of their foundress in the vaults beneath St. John's Episcopal Church, and after resting
there for fifteen years, they were, in 1859, removed to the building which is now Lady Glenorchy's
Church.

In our reminiscences of many changes which have taken place during fifty years in Scottish
manners, it might form an interesting section to record some peculiarities which remain. I
mean such peculiarities as yet linger amongst us, and still mark a difference in some of our
social habits from those of England. Some Scottish usages die hard, and are found still to
supply amusement for southern visitors. To give a few examples, persons still persist among
us in calling the head of a family, or the host, the landlord, although he never charged his
guests a halfpenny for the hospitality he exercises. In games, golf and curling still continue
to mark the national character--cricket was long an exotic amongst us. In many of our educational
institutions, however, it seems now fairly to have taken root. We continue to call our reception
rooms "public rooms," although never used for any but domestic purposes. Military rank is attached
to ladies, as we speak of Mrs. Lieutenant Fraser, Mrs. Captain Scott, Mrs. Major Smith, Mrs.
Colonel Campbell. On the occasion of a death, we persist in sending circular notices to all
the relatives, whether they know of it or not--a custom which, together with men wearing weepers
at funeral solemnities, is unknown in England[189]. Announcing a married lady's death under
her maiden name must seem strange to English ears--as, for example, we read of the demise of
Mrs. Jane Dickson, spouse of Thomas Morison. Scottish cookery retains its ground, and hotch-potch,
minced collops, sheep's head singed, and occasionally haggis, are still marked peculiarities
of the Scottish table. These social differences linger amongst us. But stronger points are
worn away; eccentricities and oddities such as existed once will not do now. One does not see
why eccentricity should be more developed in one age than in another, but we cannot avoid the
conclusion that the day for real oddities is no more. Professors of colleges are those in whom
one least expects oddity--grave and learned characters; and yet such have been in former times.
We can scarcely now imagine such professors as we read of in a past generation. Take the case
of no less distinguished a person than Adam Smith, author of the Wealth of Nations, who went
about the streets talking and laughing to himself in such a manner as to make the market women
think he was deranged; and he told of one himself who ejaculated, as he passed, "Hech, sirs,
and he is weel pat on, too!" expressing surprise that a decided lunatic, who from his dress
appeared to be a gentleman, should be permitted to walk abroad unattended. Professors still
have their crotchets like other people; but we can scarcely conceive a professor of our day
coming out like Adam Smith, and making fishwives to pass such observations on his demeanour.

Peculiarities in a people's phraseology may prove more than we are aware of, and may tend to
illustrate circumstances of national history. Thus many words which would be included by Englishmen
under the general term of Scotticisms, bear directly upon the question of a past intercourse
with France, and prove how close at one time must have been the influence exercised upon general
habits in Scotland by that intercourse. Scoto-Gallic words were quite differently situated
from French words and phrases adopted in England. With us they proceeded from a real admixture
of the two peoples. With us they form the ordinary common language of the country, and that
was from a distant period moulded by French. In England, the educated and upper classes of
late years adopted French words and phrases. With us, some of our French derivatives are growing
obsolete as vulgar, and nearly all are passing from fashionable society. In England, we find
the French-adopted words rather receiving accessions than going out of use.

Examples of words such as we have referred to, as showing a French influence and admixture,
are familiar to many of my readers. I recollect some of them in constant use amongst old-fashioned
Scottish people, and those terms, let it be remembered, are unknown in England.

A leg of mutton was always, with old-fashioned Scotch people, a gigot (Fr. gigot).

The crystal jug or decanter in which water is placed upon the table, was a caraff (Fr. carafe).

Gooseberries were groserts, or grossarts (Fr. groseille).

Partridges were pertricks,--a word much more formed upon the French perdrix than the English
partridge.

The plate on which a joint or side-dish was placed upon the table was an ashet (Fr. assiette).

In the old streets of Edinburgh, where the houses are very high, and where the inhabitants
all live in flats, before the introduction of soil-pipes there was no method of disposing of
the foul water of the household, except by throwing it out of the window into the street. This
operation, dangerous to those outside, was limited to certain hours, and the well-known cry,
which preceded the missile and warned the passenger, was gardeloo! or, as Smollett writes it,
gardy loo (Fr. garge de l'eau).

Anything troublesome or irksome used to be called, Scotticè, fashions (Fr. facheux, facheuse);
to fash one's-self (Fr. se facher).

The small cherry, both black and red, common in gardens, is in Scotland, never in England,
termed gean (Fr. guigne), from Guigne, in Picardy.

The term dambrod, which has already supplied materials for a good story, arises from adopting
French terms into Scottish language, as dams were the pieces with which the game of draughts
was played (Fr. dammes). Brod is board.

A bedgown, or loose female upper garment, is still in many parts of Scotland termed a jupe
(Fr. jupe).

In Kincardineshire the ashes of a blacksmith's furnace had the peculiar name of smiddy-coom
(Fr. écume, i.e. dross).

Oil, in common Scotch, used always to be ule,--as the uley pot, or uley cruse (Fr. huile).

Many of my readers are no doubt familiar with the notice taken of these words by Lord Cockburn,
and with the account which he gives of these Scottish words derived from the French, probably
during the time of Queen Mary's minority, when French troops were quartered in Scotland. I
subjoin a more full list, for which I am indebted to a correspondent, because the words still
lingering amongst us are in themselves the best REMINISCENCES of former days.

 Scotch.           English.                  French.
Serviter           Napkin                  From Serviette.
Gigot (of mutton)      ...                   "  Gigot.
Reeforts           Radishes                  "  Raiforts.
Grosserts          Gooseberries              "  Groseilles.
Gardyveen          Case for holding wine     "  Garde-vin.
Jupe             Part of a woman's dress     "  Jupe.
Bonnaille        A parting glass with a      "  Bon aller.
                   friend going on a journey
Gysard           Person in a fancy dress     "  Guise.
Dambrod          Draught-board               "  Dammes.
Pantufles        Slippers                    "  Pantoufles.
Haggis           Hashed meat                 "  Hachis.
Gou              Taste, smell                "  Gout.
Hogue            Tainted                     "  Haut gout.
Grange           Granary                     "  Grange.
Mouter           Miller's perquisite         "  Mouture.
Dour             Obstinate                   "  Dur.
Douce            Mild                        "  Doux.
Dorty            Sulky                       "  Dureté.
Braw             Fine                        "  Brave.
Kimmer           Gossip                      "  Commère.
Jalouse          Suspect                     "  Jalouser.
Vizzy            To aim at, to examine       "  Viser.
Ruckle           Heap (of stones)            "  Recueil.
Gardy-loo        (Notice well known in       "  Gardez-l'eau.
                   Edinburgh)
Dementit         Out of patience, deranged   "  Dementir.
On my verity     Assertion of truth          "  Verité.
By my certy      Assertion of truth          "  Certes.
Aumrie           Cupboard                    "  Almoire, in old
                                                  French.
Walise           Portmanteau                 "  Valise.
Sucker           Sugar                       "  Sucre

Edinburgh Street Cry:--"Neeps like sucker. Whae'll buy neeps?" (turnips).

Petticoat-tails    Cakes of triangular shapes   " Petits gatelles
                                                 (gateaux).
Ashet              Meat-dish                    " Assiette.
Fashious           Troublesome                  " Facheux.
Prush, Madame[190] Call to a cow to come        " Approchez,
                     forward                        Madame

I dwell the more minutely on this question of Scottish words, from the conviction of their
being so characteristic of Scottish humour, and being so distinctive a feature of the older
Scottish race. Take away our Scottish phraseology, and we lose what is our specific distinction
from England. In these expressions, too, there is often a tenderness and beauty as remarkable
as the wit and humour. I have already spoken of the phrase "Auld-lang-syne," and of other expressions
of sentiment, which may be compared in their Anglican and Scotch form.

FOOTNOTES:

[160] After all, the remark may not have been so absurd then as it appears now. Burns had not
been long dead, nor was he then so noted a character as he is now. The Scotsmen might really
have supposed a Southerner unacquainted with the fact of the poet's death.

[161] Choice.

[162] A vessel.

[163] Juice.

[164] Broth.

[165] Rev. A.K.H. Boyd.

[166] I believe the lady was Mrs. Murray Keith of Ravelston, with whom Sir Walter had in early
life much intercourse.

[167] Disputing or bandying words backwards and forwards.

[168] In Scotland the remains of the deceased person is called the "corp."

[169] Laudanum and calomel.

[170] Read from the same book.

[171] Sorely kept under by the turkey-cock.

[172] Close the doors. The old woman was lying in a "box-bed." See Life of Robert Chambers, p. 12.

[173] Empty pocket.

[174] A cough.

[175] Shrivelled.

[176] Confound.

[177] Empty.

[178] It was of this minister, Mr. Thom of Govan, that Sir Walter Scott remarked "that he had
demolished all his own chances of a Glasgow benefice, by preaching before the town council
from a text in Hosea, 'Ephraim's drink is sour.'"

[179] Empty.

[180] Basket for fish.

[181] Well advanced.

[182] Wearied.

[183] I have abundant evidence to prove that a similar answer to that which Dr. Alexander records
to have been made to Mr. Gillespie has been given on similar occasions by others.

[184] Oats heavy in bulk.

[185] This Marquis of Lothian was aide-de-camp to the Duke of Cumberland at the battle of Culloden,
who sullied his character as a soldier and a nobleman by the cruelties which he exercised on
the vanquished.

[186] Sir H. Moncreiff's Life of Dr. J. Erskine.

[187] Extraordinary.

[188] In Scotland it is usual to term the law-agent or man of business of any person his "doer."

[189] And yet, even as we write, weepers seem to be passing into reminiscence.

[190] This expression was adopted apparently in ridicule of the French applying the word "Madame"
to a cow.

CONCLUSION.

I am very anxious to bear in mind throughout these Reminiscences, and to keep in view the same
feeling for my readers--viz. that such details regarding the changes which many living have
themselves noticed as taking place in our customs and habits of society in Scotland, should
always suggest the question to the thoughtful and serious mind, Are the changes which have
been observed for good? Is the world a better world than that which we can remember? On some
important points changes have been noticed in the upper classes of Scottish society, which
unquestionably are improvements. For example, the greater attention paid to observance of Sunday,
and to attendance upon public worship,--the partial disappearance of profane swearing and of
excess in drinking. But then the painful questions arise, Are such beneficial changes general
through the whole body of our countrymen? may not the vices and follies of one grade of society
have found a refuge in those that are of a lower class? may not new faults have taken their
place where older faults have been abandoned? Of this we are quite sure--no lover of his country
can fail to entertain the anxious wish, that the change we noticed in regard to drinking and
swearing were universal, and that we had some evidence of its being extended through all classes
of society. We ought certainly to feel grateful when we reflect that, in many instances which
we have noticed, the ways and customs of society are much improved in common sense, in decency,
in delicacy, and refinement. There are certain modes of life, certain expressions, eccentricity
of conduct, coarseness of speech, books, and plays, which were in vogue amongst us, even fifty
or sixty years ago, which would not be tolerated in society at the present time. We cannot
illustrate this in a more satisfactory manner than by reference to the acknowledgment of a
very interesting and charming old lady, who died so lately as 1823. There can be no doubt that
at the time referred to by Mrs. Keith, Tristram Shandy[191], Tom Jones, Humphrey Clinker, etc.,
were on the drawing-room tables of ladies whose grandchildren or great-grandchildren never
saw them, or would not acknowledge it if they had seen them. But authors not inferior to Sterne,
Fielding, or Smollett, are now popular, who, with Charles Dickens, can describe scenes of human
life with as much force and humour, and yet in whose pages nothing will be found which need
offend the taste of the most refined, or shock the feelings of the most pure. This is a change
where there is also great improvement. It indicates not merely a better moral perception in
authors themselves, but it is itself a homage to the improved spirit of the age. We will hope
that, with an improved exterior, there is improvement in society within. If the feelings shrink
from what is coarse in expression, we may hope that vice has, in some sort, lost attraction.
At any rate, from what we discern around us we hope favourably for the general improvement
of mankind, and of our own beloved country in particular. If Scotland, in parting with her
rich and racy dialect, her odd and eccentric characters, is to lose something in quaint humour
and good stories, we will hope she may grow and strengthen in better things--good as those
are which she loses. However this may be, I feel quite assured that the examples which I have
now given, of Scottish expressions, Scottish modes and habits of life, and Scottish anecdotes,
which belong in a great measure to the past, and yet which are remembered as having a place
in the present century, must carry conviction that great changes have taken place in the Scottish
social circle. There were some things belonging to our country which we must all have desired
should be changed. There were others which we could only see changed with regret and sorrow.
The hardy and simple habits of Scotsmen of many past generations; their industry, economy,
and integrity, which made them take so high a place in the estimation and the confidence of
the people amongst whom they dwelt in all countries of the world; the intelligence and superior
education of her mechanics and her peasantry, combined with a strict moral and religious demeanour,
fully justified the praise of Burns when he described the humble though sublime piety of the
"Cottar's Saturday Night," and we can well appreciate the testimony which he bore to the hallowed
power and sacred influences of the devotional exercises of his boyhood's home, when he penned
the immortal words:--

     "From scenes like these old Scotia's grandeur springs,
     That makes her loved at home, revered abroad."

On comparing Scotland past with Scotland present, we cannot evade the question, Are "scenes
like these"--devotional domestic scenes like these--become less frequent than they were? Do
they still hold their place by the cottar's fireside, or are they becoming only a reminiscence
of what was once a national distinction? Whatever be our religious opinions, or whatever be
our views on questions of ecclesiastical polity and church order, no Scotsman who desires the
happiness and honour of his country could avoid a deep regret at the very idea of Burns' "Cottar's
Saturday Night" having become a thing of the past; and yet we must not shrink from inquiry
into the true state of the case. I have asked the opinions of friends both of the Established
and the Free Church, who have met my inquiries in a fair and candid spirit, and, from the answers
I have received, have come to something like the following conclusion:--I believe such scenes
as Burns' "Cottar's Saturday Night" are still to be met with in all their freshness and all
their fervour in the dwellings of a good religious peasantry; but in some places the cottar
population itself has undergone a great change. Two causes have combined to produce this effect:--An
extensive system of emigration has thinned the older families of the soil, whilst the practice
of bringing in mere labourers has in many districts made the old family domestic firesides
less numerous. Then, alas! alas! we fear cottar MORALITY has not been such as to keep up the
practice. Reports made to both the General Assemblies of 1871 on this question were far from
being satisfactory. Dr. Begg, too, in his striking and able pamphlet on the "Ecclesiastical
and Social Evils of Scotland," refers to "symptoms of a nation's degeneracy which seem multiplying
in Scotland;" also to a "growing amount of heathenism and drunkenness."

With such representations before us regarding a decline of domestic morality, we cannot expect
to see much increase of domestic piety. Burns, after he had become lowered in moral feelings
by those licentious habits and scenes into which he unfortunately fell after he had left his
father's house, was not hypocrite enough to profess the same love and interest for the scenes
of his innocent and early days. The country clergy of Scotland have their many difficulties
against which they are to contend; and many obstacles which they have to meet. But let not
the domestic piety of the lowest cottages of the land be lost sight of. The results of such
worship are so blessed upon the inmates, that the practice should everywhere be urged upon
their flocks by the clergy, and encouraged by all means in their power; and in that view it
would, I think, be desirable to circulate short forms of prayer for family use. Many such have
lately been published; and, whatever difference of opinion may be entertained as to the comparative
merits of extempore or liturgical prayer for the public worship of the church, there can be
no question that in many instances a form must be very useful, and often essential at the commencement,
at least, of cottage worship. I have known cases where it has been declined on the plea of
inability to conduct the service.

There are numerous indications that, on the whole, a regard for religion and religious ordinances
is not losing ground in Scotland. The great number of churches--and of handsome churches--that
are springing up, indicate, by their attendance, how much hold the subject has upon the people.
The ample funds raised for charitable and for missionary objects give good testimony in the
cause; and, in regard to the immediate question before us, one favourable result may be reported
on this subject--the practice and feelings of domestic piety and family worship have, at any
rate, extended in Scotland in an upward direction of its social life. Beyond all doubt, we
may say family worship is more frequent, as a general practice, in houses of the rich, and
also in the houses of farmers and of superior operatives, than it was some years ago. The Montrose
anecdote about family prayers, told at page 64, could hardly have place now, and indeed many
persons could not understand the point.

I hope I am not blinded to the defects of my own countrymen, nor am I determined to resist
evidence of any deterioration which may be proved. But I feel confident that Scotland still
stands pre-eminent amongst the nations for moral and religious qualities. The nucleus of her
character will bear comparison with any. We will cherish hope for the mental tone of our countrymen
being still in the ascendant, and still imbued with those qualities that make a moral and religious
people. We have reason to know that in many departments of business, Scottish intelligence,
Scottish character, and Scottish services, are still decidedly at a premium in the market.

But now, before concluding, I am desirous of recording some Reminiscences upon a phase of Scottish
RELIGIOUS history which involves very important consequences, and which I would not attempt
to discuss without serious consideration. Indeed I have sometimes shrunk from the discussion
at all, as leading to questions of so delicate a nature, and as involving matters on which
there are so many differences of opinion. I refer to the state of our divisions and alienations
of spirit on account of religion.

The great Disruption, which nearly equally divided the National Church, and which took place
in 1843, is now become a matter of reminiscence. Of those nearly connected with that movement,
some were relatives of my own, and many were friends. Unlike similar religious revolutions,
that which caused the Free Church of Scotland did not turn upon any difference of opinion on
matters either of doctrine or of ecclesiastical polity. It arose entirely from differences
regarding the relation subsisting between the Church and the State, by which the Church was
established and endowed. The great evil of all such divisions, and the real cause for regret,
lie in the injury they inflict on the cause of Christian unity and Christian love, and the
separation they too often make between those who ought to be united in spirit, and who have
hitherto been not unfrequently actually joined for years as companions and friends. The tone
which is adopted by publications, which are the organs of various party opinions amongst us,
show how keenly disputants, once excited, will deal with each other. The differences consequent
upon the Disruption in the Scottish Church called forth great bitterness of spirit and much
mutual recrimination at the time. But it seems to me that there are indications of a better
spirit, and that there is more tolerance and more forbearance on religious differences amongst
Scottish people generally. I cannot help thinking, however, that at no period of our ecclesiastical
annals was such language made use of, and even against those of the highest place and authority
in the Church, as we have lately met with in the organs of the extreme Anglican Church party.
It is much to be regretted that earnest and zealous men should have adopted such a style of
discussing religious differences. I cannot help thinking it is injurious to Christian feelings
of love and Christian kindness. It is really sometimes quite appalling. From the same quarter
I must expect myself severe handling for some of these pages, should they fall into their way.
We cannot but lament, however, when we find such language used towards each other by those
who are believers in a common Bible, and who are followers and disciples of the same lowly
Saviour, and indeed frequently members of the same Church. Bigotry and intolerance are not
confined to one side or another. They break out often where least expected. Differences, no
doubt, will always exist on many contested subjects, but I would earnestly pray that all SUCH
differences, amongst ourselves at least, as those which injure the forbearance and gentleness
of the Christian character, should become "Scottish Reminiscences," whether they are called
forth by the opposition subsisting between Presbyterianism and Episcopacy, or whether they
arise amongst Presbyterians or amongst Episcopalians themselves.

To my apprehension Scotland has recently seen a most painful indication of the absence of that
charity which, according to St. Paul, should "never fail" amongst a Christian people. The act
of two English Prelates officiating in one of the Established churches has called forth a storm
of indignation as loud and vehement as if in a heathen land they had fallen down before the
image of a heathen deity, and worshipped in a heathen temple. Then the explanation which has
been given by apologists for these services is not the least remarkable feature of the transaction.
These ministrations have been called "Mission Services," and, in so far as I enter into the
meaning of the phrase, I would solemnly and seriously protest against its being made use of
in such a case. "Mission service" can only be applied to the case of a missionary raising his
voice "in partibus infidelium" or, to say the least of it, in a land where no Christian church
was already planted. When I think of the piety, the Christian worth, and high character of
so many friends in the Established and other Presbyterian churches in Scotland, I would again
repeat my solemn protestation against such religious intolerance, and again declare my conviction,
that Englishmen and Scotsmen, so far from looking out for points of difference and grounds
for separation on account of the principles on which their Churches are established, should
endeavour to make the bonds of religious union as close as possible. I can scarcely express
the gratification I felt on learning from the Scotsman, November 20, that such were the sentiments
called forth by this event in the mind of one of the ablest and most distinguished Prelates
of our day. In reference to the Glengarry services, the Bishop of St. Andrews (Wordsworth)
has declared his opinion, that the "subsequent explanations of those services seemed to mar
the good work by introducing questions of etiquette, where nothing should have been thought
of but the simple performance of Christian duty by Christian ministers for the benefit of Christian
people[192]."

Such is the judgment expressed by the honoured and learned Bishop of St. Andrews, whose noble
and patriotic exertions to draw the Episcopalians and the Presbyterians of Scotland closer
together in bonds of religious feelings and religious worship have been spoken of in such terms,
and such words have been applied to his labours in that cause, and to the administration generally
of his own diocese, by one of the very high English Church papers, as have been to me a cause
of deep sorrow and poignant regret.

As a Scotsman by descent from Presbyterians of high moral and religious character, and as an
Episcopalian by conscientious preference, I would fain see more of harmony and of confidence
between all Scotsmen, not only as fellow-countrymen, but as fellow-Christians. When I first
joined the Episcopal Church the Edinburgh Episcopal clergy were on most friendly terms with
the leading clergy of the Established Church. Every consideration was shown to them by such
men as Bishop Sandford, Dr. Morehead, Rev. Archibald Alison, Rev. Mr. Shannon, and others.
There was always service in the Episcopal chapels on the National Church communion fast-days.
No opposition or dislike to Episcopalian clergymen occupying Presbyterian pulpits was ever
avowed as a great principle. Charles Simeon of Cambridge, and others of the Churches of England
and Ireland, frequently so officiated, and it was considered as natural and suitable. The learning
and high qualities of the Church of England's hierarchy, were, with few exceptions, held in
profound respect. Indeed, during the last hundred years, and since the days when Episcopacy
was attacked under the term of "black prelacy," I can truly say, the Episcopal order has received
far more severe handling in Episcopal England than it has received in Presbyterian Scotland.
I must think, that in the case of two churches where the grounds of resemblance are on points
of spiritual importance affecting great truths and doctrines of salvation, and where the points
of difference affect questions more of government and external order than of salvation, there
ought to be on both parts the desire at least to draw as closely as they can the bonds of Christian
charity and mutual confidence.

I believe it to be very painful to Scotsmen generally, whether of the Established or the Episcopal
Church, that the Presbyterian Church of Scotland should be spoken of in such terms as have
lately been made use of. Scotsmen feel towards it as to the Church of the country established
by law, just as the Anglican Church is established in England. They feel towards it as the
Church whose ministrations are attended by our gracious Sovereign when she resides in the northern
portion of her dominions, and in which public thanksgiving was offered to God in the royal
presence for her Majesty's recovery. But more important still, they feel towards it as a church
of which the members are behind no other communion in the tone and standard of their moral
principle and integrity of conduct. They feel towards it as a church which has nobly retained
her adherence to the principles of the Reformation, and which has been spared the humiliation
of exhibiting any of her clergy nominally members of a reformed church, and, at the same time,
virtually and at heart adherents to the opinions and practices of the Church of Rome. English
people, in speaking of the Established Church of Scotland, seem to forget how much Episcopalians
are mixed up with their Presbyterian fellow-countrymen in promoting common charitable and religious
objects. For example, take my own experience: the administration of a very valuable charitable
institution called the Paterson and Pape Fund, is vested jointly in the incumbent of St. John's,
Edinburgh (Episcopalian), and the two clergymen of St. Cuthbert's (Established) Church. Even
in matters affecting the interests of our own Church we may find ourselves closely connected.
Take the administration of the late Miss Walker's will, and the carrying out her munificent
bequest to our Church, of which I am a trustee. Of the nine trustees, two are Episcopalians
residing in Scotland, one an Episcopalian residing in England, and six are Presbyterians residing
in Scotland. The primary object of Miss Walker's settlement is to build and endow, for divine
service, a cathedral church in Edinburgh; the edifice to cost not less than £40,000. The income
arising from the remainder of her property to be expended for the benefit of the Scottish Episcopal
Church generally. A meeting of trustees was held, November 25, 1871, and one of the first steps
unanimously agreed upon was to appoint the Bishop-Coadjutor of Edinburgh, who is a trustee,
to be chairman of the meeting. There is no doubt or question of mutual good feeling in the
work, and that our Church feels full and entire confidence in the fair, honourable, candid,
and courteous conduct of the trustees to whom in this case will be committed weighty matters
connected with her interests.

At one of the congresses of the English Church it has been said, and well said, by Mr. B. Hope,
that he and his friends of the High Church party would join as closely as they could with the
members of the Romish Church who have taken common cause with Dr. Dollinger, "looking more
to points where they agree, and not to points where they differ." Why should not the same rule
be adopted towards brethren who differ from ourselves so little on points that are vital and
eternal? The principle which I would apply to the circumstances, I think, may be thus stated:
I would join with fellow-Christians in any good works or offices, either of charity or religion,
where I could do so without compromise of my own principles. On such ground I do not see why
we should not realise the idea already suggested,--viz. that of having an interchange between
our pulpits and the pulpits of the Established and other Presbyterian or Independent Churches.
Such ministerial interchange need not affect the question of orders, nor need it, in fact,
touch many other questions on which differences are concerned.

Of course this should be arranged under due regulation, and with full precaution taken that
the questions discussed shall be confined to points where there is agreement, and that points
of difference should be left quite in abeyance. Why should we, under proper arrangements, fail
to realise so graceful an exercise of Christian charity? Why should we lose the many benefits
favourable to the advancement of Christian unity amongst us? An opportunity for practically
putting this idea into a tangible form has occurred from the circumstance of the new chapel
in the University of Glasgow being opened for service, to be conducted by clergymen of various
churches. I gladly avail myself of the opportunity of testifying my grateful acknowledgments
for the courteous and generous conduct of Dr. Caird, in his efforts to put forward members
of our Church to conduct the services of the College chapel, and also of expressing my admiration
of the power and beauty of his remarks on Christian unity and on brotherly love[193].

This is with me no new idea; no crude experiment proposed for the occasion. I have before me
a paper which I wrote some years since, and which I had put into the shape of "An Address to
the Bishops," to sanction such exchange of pulpits, hoping to get some of my clerical brethren
to join in the object of the address. I feel assured much good would, under God, be the result
of such spiritual union. If congregations would only unite in exchange of such friendly offices
of religious instruction with each other, how often would persons, now strangers, become better
acquainted! I wish the experiment could be tried, were it only to show how prejudices would
be removed; how misunderstandings would be cleared away; how many better and kinder feelings
would grow out of the closer union on religious questions! Nay, I would go farther, and express
my full conviction, that my own Church would gain rather than lose in her interests under such
a system. Men would be more disposed to listen with attention, and examine with candour the
arguments we make use of in favour of our Church views. We should gain more of the sympathy
of our countrymen who differ from us, by a calm expostulation than by bitter invective. Beautifully
and wisely was it written by a sacred pen nearly three thousand years ago, "A soft answer turneth
away wrath."

I have such confidence in the excellence of my own Church, that I believe to bring persons
into closer and kinder connection with our system would be the more likely way to gain their
approval and their favourable judgment. In nothing do we lose more of the confidence and estimation
of our fellow-countrymen than in the feeling of our being intolerant and exclusive in our religious
opinions. It is curious people should not see that the arguments addressed in a friendly spirit
must tell more powerfully than the arguments of one who shows his hostile feeling.

With these feelings on the subject, it may be easily understood with what pleasure I read,
in the Edinburgh Courant of November 10th, a report of what our Primus (Bishop Eden) said,
at the entertainment which was given on the occasion of the consecration of St. Mary's Church,
Glasgow. In speaking on the question of Union, the Primus said--

     "I think I may speak for my Episcopal brethren, when I say
     that if the heads, especially of the Established Church of
     Scotland--for that is the body that has most power and
     influence--if a proposal were made by the leading men in that
     Church, in concurrence with those who hold views similar to
     themselves--a conference of the representative men of the
     different Churches--to consider in a Christian spirit what
     our differences are, and what are the points on which we are
     agreed, we would be most happy to take part in it. Such a
     conference might, in the providence of God, lead to our being
     drawn nearer to each other. I believe that then the prayer
     which the Bishop of St. Andrews offered up would he the
     earlier accomplished, namely, that the Episcopal Churches
     might become Reformed, and the Reformed Churches become
     Episcopal. If any proposal of this kind could be made, I
     believe we would be most ready to accept any invitation to
     consider whether the various Churches might not be drawn
     nearer to each other." (Great applause.)

The Coadjutor Bishop of Edinburgh in his address, after briefly referring to some proposals
that had been made for union among the churches in South Africa, went on to say--

     "I do say, as one of the Bishops of the Scottish Episcopal
     Church now, and in reference to what fell from the Primus,
     that I most heartily concur in what he said, and I cannot but
     feel that, without the slightest breach of the great
     fundamental principles of the Church of Christ, there are
     many points on which we may be at one with Christians who are
     not part of our organic body.

     "I believe the proposal made by the Primus would have the
     effect of drawing them nearer to us, and be a step forward to
     that consummation which we all desire, and which our blessed
     Lord prayed--with his last breath--'That we may all be one.'"
     (Great applause.)

That two honoured Fathers of our Church, our Primus and my own Bishop, should have made use
of such terms, and that their views should have been received by such an audience with so much
applause, I could have offered a grateful acknowledgment upon my knees.

But after all, perhaps, it may be said this is an utopian idea, which, in the present state
of religious feelings and ecclesiastical differences, never can be realised. It were a sufficient
answer to the charge of utopianism brought against such a proposal, to plead that it was no
more than what was sanctioned by the teaching of God's word. In this case it does not seem
to go beyond the requirements of holy Scripture as set forth in St. Paul's description of charity,
and in other passages which clearly enjoin Christians to act towards each other in love, and
to cultivate, so far as they can, a spirit of mutual forbearance and of joint action in the
sacred cause of preaching the truth as it is in Jesus. I cannot believe that, were St. Paul
on earth, he would sanction the present state of jealous separation amongst Christians.

The determination to exclude preaching that is not strictly according to our own forms seems
to me quite inconsistent with the general teaching of Scripture, more particularly with this
apostolic declaration. But I would bring this question to a practical issue, and we shall find
enough in our own experience to confirm the view I have taken, and to sanction the arrangement
I propose. To bring forward co-operation in the great and vitally important work of preaching
God's word, which has been already effected between persons holding on some points opinions
different from each other, take first the case of revision of the English translation of the
Old and New Testament Scriptures, as it has been resolved upon by the authorities of the great
Anglican Communion. They have had no difficulty in finding Nonconformist scholars and divines
whose fitness to be associated with Anglican Churchmen in the great work of arranging and correcting
an authorised version has been admitted by all. Thus we have Nonconformists and English and
Scottish Episcopalians united in adjusting the terms of the sacred text;--the text from which
all preaching in the English tongue shall in future derive its authority, and by which all
its teaching shall in future be guided and directed. There is already, however, a closer and
a more practical blending of minds on great religious questions much differing from each other
on lesser points. In the field of religious and devotional literature, many of our church differences
are lost sight of. Episcopalian congregations are constantly in the habit of joining with much
cordiality and earnestness in singing hymns composed by authors nonconformists with our Church--in
fact, of adopting them into their church service. These compositions form a portion of their
worship, and are employed to illustrate and enforce their own most earnest doctrinal views
and opinions themselves. How entirely are such compositions as the sacramental hymn, "My God,
and is thy table spread," by Doddridge; the hymn, "When I behold the wondrous cross," by Isaac
Watts, associated with our Church services! Nor are such feelings of adoption confined to poetical
compositions. How many prose productions by non-Episcopalian authors might be introduced for
the delight and benefit of Christian congregations! How eagerly many such compositions are
read by members of our Church! With what delight would many discourses of this class have been
listened to had they been delivered to Episcopalian congregations! Where such hymns and such
discourses are admissible, the authors of them might take a part in conducting psalmody and
in occupying the pulpit for preaching to a congregation. If the spirits of such writers as
Doddridge, Watts, and Hall, have been felt to permeate and to influence the hearts of others
who have heard or read their words of holiness and peace, we may well suppose that God would
sanction their making like impressions, in his own house, upon the hearts of those whom they
meet there face to face. Might they not communicate personally what they communicate through
the press? For example, why should not Robert Hall have preached his sermons on Infidelity
and on the Death of the Princess of Wales, perhaps the two most magnificent discourses in the
language, in an English Cathedral? Why should not the beautiful astronomical discourses of
Thomas Chalmers have been delivered in St. Paul's or in St. John's, Edinburgh? For many years,
in want of better materials, the sermons of Dr. Blair were more used in the Church of England,
and more read in private, than any similar compositions. It has been for years a growing persuasion
in my own mind that principles of Christian love and mutual harmony are too often sacrificed
to the desire of preserving the exact and formal marks of church order, as the Bishop of St.
Andrews so happily expressed it to preserve etiquette. Surely the great law of Christian love
would suggest and enforce a union at least of spirit amongst Christian believers, who cannot
join in the unity of the same organisation. Inability to join in the same form of church polity
and church order need not shut the door to religious sympathies and religious communion, where
there are so many points of agreement and of mutual interest. The experience of the past will
tend to produce the conviction that there has too often been in our religious disputes a strong
tendency in all Christian denominations to make the great principle of love, which is a principle
to rule in Heaven and for eternity, actually subservient and subordinate to a system of ecclesiastical
order, which, important as it is for its own purposes and objects, never can be more than a
guide to the ministration of the Church on earth, and an organisation which must be in its
nature confined to time.

Wherever or whenever this feeling may be called forth, it is a grievous error--it is a very
serious subject for our reflection, how far such want of sympathy and of union with those who
do not belong immediately to our own church, must generate a feeling hostile to a due reception
of an important article of our faith, termed in the Apostles' Creed the COMMUNION OF SAINTS.
According to the description given by the judicious and learned Bishop Pearson, this communion
or spiritual union belongs to all who are in New Testament language denominated SAINTS; by
which he means all who, having been baptized in the faith, have this name by being called and
baptized. Then he states all Christian believers to have communion and fellowship with these,
whether living or dead. We should feel towards such persons (evidently, as the good Bishop
implies, without reference to any particular church order) all sympathy and kindness as members
of the same great spiritual family on earth, expectants of meeting in heaven in the presence
of God and of the Lamb, and of joining in the worship of saints and angels round the throne.
I have no hesitation in declaring my full conviction that such expectations of future communion
should supply a very powerful and sacred motive for our cultivating all spiritual union in
our power with all fellow-Christians, all for whom Christ died. It becomes a very serious subject
for examination of our own hearts, how, by refusing any spiritual intercourse with Christians
who are not strictly members of our own Church, we may contravene this noble doctrine of the
Communion of Saints; for does not the bitterness with which sometimes we find all union with
certain fellow-Christians in the Church on earth chill or check the feeling of a desire for
union with the same in the Church above? Nay, is there not matter for men's earnest thought,
how far the violent animosity displayed against the smallest approach to anything like spiritual
communion with all Christians of a different Church from their own may chill the DESIRE itself
for "meeting in the Church above?" Can hatred to meeting on earth be in any sense a right preliminary
or preparation for desire to meet in Heaven? Nay, more, should we not carefully guard lest
the bitter displays we see of religious hostility may even tend to bring men's minds towards
a disinclination to meet in Heaven, of which the most terrible condition was thus expressed
by Southey:--"Earth could not hold us both, nor can one heaven[194]."

One mark of any particular Church being a portion of Christ's Church on earth seems to be overlooked
by some of our English friends, and that is a mark pointed out by our Lord himself, when he
said, "By their FRUITS ye shall know them." By this announcement I would understand that besides
and beyond a profession of the great articles of the Christian faith, I would, as a further
criterion of a Christian church, inquire if there were many of its members who have been distinguished
for their Christian piety, Christian learning, and Christian benevolence. Is all external communion
to be interdicted with a church which has produced such men as we might name amongst the children
of our Established and other Churches in Scotland? Look back upon half-a-century, and ask if
a similar act with that of the Archbishop of York and Bishop of Winchester would then have
created a like feeling. I can remember well the interest and admiration called forth by the
eloquence, the philanthropy, and the moral fervour of Dr. Chalmers, amongst the High Church
school of the day too--the good Archbiship Howley, Bishop Blomfield, Rev. Mr. Norris of Hackney,
Mr. Joshua Watson, etc. I remember, too, the perfect ovation he received in the attendance
of Archbishops, Bishops, Clergy, Peers, Princes, etc., of the great London world, at his lectures
on Establishments. We can hardly imagine any one saying then, "This is all very well, but the
Church that produced this man is no part of the true Church of Christ, and no English prelate
or clergyman could possibly take service in it."

No one, I believe, who is acquainted with my own views and opinions on religious subjects would
say that I look with indifference on those points wherein we differ from the great body of
our fellow-countrymen. I am confident that I should not gain in the estimation of Presbyterians
themselves by showing a cold indifference, or a lukewarm attachment, to the principles and
practice of my own Church. They would see that my own convictions in favour of Episcopal government
in the Church, and of liturgical services in her worship, were quite compatible with the fullest
exercise of candour and forbearance towards the opinions of others--I mean on questions not
essential to salvation.

I believe that there are persons amongst us coming round to this opinion, and who are ready
to believe that it is quite possible for Christians to exercise very friendly mutual relations
in spiritual matters which constitute the essential articles of a common faith, whilst they
are in practice separated on points of ecclesiastical order and of church government. I am
old, and shall not see it; but I venture to hope that, under the Divine blessing, the day will
come when to Scotsmen it will be a matter of reminiscence that Episcopalians, or that Presbyterians
of any denomination, should set the interests of their own communion above the exercise of
that charity that for a brother's faith "hopeth all things and believeth all things." Zeal
in promoting our own Church views, and a determination to advance her interests and efficiency,
need be no impediment to cultivating the most friendly feelings towards those who agree with
us in matters which are essential to salvation and who, in their differences from us, are,
I am bound to believe, as conscientious as myself. Such days will come.

But now, to close my remarks on national peculiarities, with what I may term a practical and
personal application. We have in our later pages adopted a more solemn and serious view of
past reminiscences as they bear upon questions connected with a profession of religion. It
is quite suitable then to recall the fact which applies individually to all our readers. We
shall ourselves each of us one day become subject to a "reminiscence" of others. Indeed, the
whole question at issue throughout the work takes for granted what we must all have observed
to be a very favourite object with survivors--viz. that the characters of various persons,
as they pass away, will be always spoken of, and freely discussed, by those who survive them.
We recall the eccentric, and we are amused with a remembrance of their eccentricities. We admire
the wise and dignified of the past. There are some who are recollected only to be detested
for their vices--some to be pitied for their weaknesses and follies--some to be scorned for
mean and selfish conduct. But there are others whose memory is embalmed in tears of grateful
recollection. There are those whose generosity and whose kindness, whose winning sympathy and
noble disinterested virtues are never thought upon or ever spoken of without calling forth
a blessing. Might it not, therefore, be good for us often to ask ourselves how we are likely
to be spoken of when the grave has closed upon the intercourse between us and the friends whom
we leave behind? The thought might, at any rate, be useful as an additional motive for kind
and generous conduct to each other. And then the inquiry would come home to each one in some
such form as this--"Within the circle of my family and friends--within the hearts of those
who have known me, and were connected with me in various social relations--what will be the
estimate formed of me when I am gone? What will be the spontaneous impression produced by looking
back on bygone intercourses in life? Will past thought of me furnish the memory of those who
survive me with recollections that will be fond and pleasing?" In one word, let each one ask
himself (I speak to countrymen and countrywomen), "Will my name be associated with gentle and
happy 'REMINISCENCES OF SCOTTISH LIFE AND CHARACTER'?"

FOOTNOTES:

[191] Sterne, in one of his letters, describes his reading Tristram Shandy to his wife and
daughter--his daughter copying from his dictation, and Mrs. Sterne sitting by and listening
whilst she worked. In the life of Sterne, it is recorded that he used to carry about in his
pocket a volume of this same work, and read it aloud when he went into company. Admirable reading
for the church dignitary, the prebendary of York! How well adapted to the hours of social intercourse
with friends! How fitted for domestic seclusion with his family!

[192] Scottish Guardian, vol. ii. No. ix. p. 305.

[193] "What is Religion?" a sermon by Rev. John Caird, D.D., Professor of Divinity in the University
of Glasgow, and one of Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. See especially concluding remarks.

[194] See Southey's Roderick, book xxi.

INDEX.

'Aaple,' bottle of beer strong o'.
Abercairney, Laird of, prevented from going out in '15.
Aberdeen dialect, perfect specimens of.
Aberdeen elders, opinion of.
Aberdeen provost, wife of, at the opera.
Aberdeen, two ladies of, mutual recrimination.
'A bonnie bride's sune buskit.'
Accommodation, grand, for snuff.
'Acts o' Parliament lose their breath
    before they get to Aberdeenshire.'
Adam, Dr., Latin translation of Scottish expressions.
Advice to a minister in talking to a ploughman.
'A gravesteen wad gie guid bree gin ye gied it plenty o' butter.'
'A hantle o' miscellawneous eating about a pig.'
Airth, housekeeper at, on king of France.
Alexander, Dr. W. Lindsay.
'And what the devil is it to you whether I have a liver or not?'
Anecdotes of quaint Scottish character.
Angel-worship is not allowed in the Church of Scotland.
Angler and the horse-fly.
Answer to stranger asking the way.
Answers, dry, specimens of.
'A peer o' anither tree.'
Appetite, farmer's reason for minister's good appetite.
Asher, minister of Inveraven, anecdote of.
Athole, Duke of, and Cultoquhey.
Athole, Duke of, answer of his cottar.
Auction, anecdote of spoon missing.
Auld lang syne, beauty of the expression.
Auld, Rev. Dr., of Ayr, and Rab Hamilton.
Authors, older ones indecent.
'Ay, ir ye a' up an' awa?'
'Ay, she may prosper, for she has baith the prayers of the good and
     of the bad.'

Baby, a laddie or a lassie. Baird, Mrs., of Newbyth, remark of, as to her son in India. Balnamoon,
laird of, carriage to haud in. Balnamoon, laird of, great drinker. Balnamoon, laird of, joke
with his servant. Balnamoon, laird of, refuses his wig. Balnamoon, praying and drinking at.
Banes, distinction of, by a beggar. Banes, Frasers weel-baned. Bannockburn, guide to, refusing
an Englishman's five shillings. Bannockburn, Scottish remark upon. Baptism, minister and member
of his flock. Barclay of Ury, M. P., walk to London Bathgate, mending the ways of Beadle, equivocal
compliment to minister's sermons Beadle or Betheral, character of Beast, a stumbling, at least
honest 'Becky and I had a rippit, for which I desire to be humble' Begg, Dr., on Scottish morality
of the present day Beggar, expressing his thanks to a clerical patron Bellman of Craigie, notice
from Bestial, curious use of word Betheral, a conceited one Betheral criticising a clergyman
Betheral, criticism on a text Betheral, evidence of, regarding drinking Betheral, making love
professionally Betheral, on a dog that was noisy Betheral, on the town bailies Betheral, Scottish,
answer to minister on being drunk Betheral stories Betheral taking a dog out of church Betheral's
answer to minister Betherals, conversation of two, regarding their ministers Blair, Rev. Dr.
Hugh, and his beadle Blessing by Scottish Bishops, form of, become a reminiscence Blethering
Boatie, character on Deeside Boatie of Deeside, and Providence Books, older ones indecent Border,
selvidge, weakest bit of the wab Bowing to heritors Boy, anecdote of Braxfield, Lord, a man
of wit Braxfield, Lord, character of, as a judge Braxfield, Lord, conducting the trial of Muir,
Palmer, and Skirving, etc. Braxfield, Lord, delighted with reply of Scotch minister Braxfield,
Lord, spoke the broadest Scotch Briggs, the sergeant, dry description of, by Scottish nobleman
Brougham, Lord, on Scottish dialect Brown, Rev. John, and the auld wifie Brown, Rev. John of
Whitburn, answer to rude youth Bruce, Mr., of Kinnaird, and Louis XVI. of France Buccleuch,
Duchess of, asking farmer to take cabbage Bull, specimen of Scottish confusion of ideas 'Bulls
of Bashan' applied by a lady to herself Burnett, Dr. Gilbert, Bishop of Salisbury Burnett,
Sir Thomas, of Leys, and his tenant Drummy Burnett, Lady, of Leys Burns, a son of, and Charles
Lamb Burns conducted family worship Burying-place, choice of Bush, conversation with minister
in church Butler and Kincardineshire laird 'But my minnie dang, she did though' 'But oh, I'm
sair hadden doun wi' the bubbly jock' 'But the bodies brew the braw drink'

CAMPBELL of Combie and Miss M'Nabb, anecdote of
Campbell, Rev. Duncan, on Highland honours
Camstraddale, the Dumbartonshire laird
Canny, illustration of one of its meanings
Canterbury, Archbishop of, and the Dollar man
Carlyle, Dr., account of minister's drinking in last century
Carlyle, Dr., prosecuted by General Assembly for attending theatre
Carnegie, Miss Helen, of Craigo, anecdotes of
Carnegie, Miss, of Craigo, and James III. and VIII.
Carrier, a country, description of his journeys
Catastrophe, whimsical application of the word
'Cauld kail het again'
'Ceevil,' in courtship, may be carried too far
Cemeteries, treatment of, much changed
Chalmers, Dr., poor woman's reason for hearing
Chambers, Robert, Domestic Annals of Scotland.
Change of national language involves change of national character.
Changes, are they for the good of the whole community?
Changes, example of, in an old Laird seeing a man at the pianoforte.
Changes fast going on around us.
Changes in Scottish manners and dialect.
Changes, interesting to mark.
Changes taking place, here noticed.
Changes taking place in religious feeling.
Changes, various causes for.
Chaplain of a jail, humorous reasons for his appointment.
Children, curious answers of.
Children, very poor, examples of acuteness.
Children's diseases.
Church discipline in the Presbytery of Lanark.
Churches, a coachman's reason for their increase.
Churches, architect's idea of difference between two.
Churches, handsome structure of, more common.
Church discipline, old fashioned.
Church-going of late neglected in towns.
Church-going, Scotchmen not famous for, fifty years ago.
Churchyard, drunken weaver in.
Circuit, a drunken one.
Circuit, one described by Lord Cockburn.
Clergy, Gaelic, not judged severely on account of drinking.
Clergyman footsore in grouse-shooting.
Clergyman publicly rebuking his wife.
Clerk, John, address to presiding judge.
Clerk, John, answer to Lord Chancellor.
Clerk, John, apology for friend in Court of Session.
Cockburn, Lord, and the Bonaly shepherd.
Cockburn, Lord, on Scottish changes.
Cockburn's Memorials, extracts from.
Collie dogs, sagacity of.
Confirmation, anecdotes concerning.
Constable, Thomas, anecdote of spare lady.
Conviviality, old Scottish, and forced.
Conviviality, Scotch, complaint of, by a London merchant.
Corb, and Sir George Ramsay.
Corehouse, Lord, prediction of not rising at the bar, by a Selkirk
  writer.
'Corp's brither' at a funeral.
Cottar's Saturday night, fine picture.
Country minister and his wife, large bed.
Craigie, Rev. Mr., and Jamie Fleeman.
Craigmyle, Laird of, and Duchess of Gordon.
Cranstoun, George, Lord Corehouse.
Cream, Billy, landlord of inn at Laurencekirk, and Lord Dunmore.
Cross, curious meaning attached to.
'Cry a'thegither, that's the way to be served.'
Cumming, Dr. Patrick, convivial clergyman.
Cumming, Miss, of Altyre, and Donald MacQueen.
Cumnock, volunteers of.
Cultoquhey, old Laird of, morning litany.
Cutty-stool, former use of.

Daft person, his choice of money. Dale, David, anecdotes of his servant. Dalhousie, Lady. Dam-brod
pattern table-cloth. Dancing, seceder's opinion of. Darkness, what is it? Davie, chiel that's
chained to. Davy Gellatleys, many in the country. Death, circumstances of, coolly treated.
Death of a sister described by old lady. Decrees of God, answer of old woman. Degrees sold
at northern universities. Delicacy of recent authors compared with older. Dewar, David, Baptist
minister at Dunfermline. Dialects, distinctions on Scottish. Dialect, Scottish, real examples
of. Dialects, provosts, Aberdeen and Edinburgh. Diamond Beetle case. Difference between an
Episcopalian and a Presbyterian minister. Diminutives, terms of endearment. Discreet, curious
use of word. Diseases of children, odd names for. 'Div ye no ken there's aye maist sawn o'
the best crap?' Dochart, same as Macgregor. Dog story. 'Doggie, doggie,' address of idiot to
a greyhound. Dogs in church, anecdotes of. Donald, Highland servant. Donkey, apology of his
master for putting him into a field. Downie, minister of Banchory, and son's marriage. Drams
in Highlands, anecdotes of. Dream of idiot in town of Ayr, and apostle Peter. Drinking, apology
for. Drinking at Balnamoon. Drinking at Castle Grant. Drinking, challenge against, by Mr. Boswell
of Balmuto. Drinking parties of Saturday sometimes took in Sunday. Drinking party, 'lad employed
to lowse the neckcloths.' Drinking party, quantity consumed by. Drinking reckoned an accomplishment.
Drinking, supposed manliness attached to. Drovers drinking in Highlands. Drumly, happy explanation
of. Drummond of Keltie, answer to itinerant tailor. Dunbar, Sir Archibald, account of a servant.
Dundas, Henry, and Mr. Pitt. Dundrennan, Lord, anecdote of a silly basket-woman. Dunlop, Rev.
Walter, address to Dr. Cook of St. Andrews. Dunlop, Rev. Walter, and Mr. Clarke's big head.
Dunlop, Rev. Walter, man of racy humour. Dunlop, Rev. Walter, meeting flock of geese. Dunlop,
Rev. Walter, on a taciturn brother. Dunlop, Rev. Walter, and mischievous youths in kirk-yard.
Dunlop, Rev. Walter, answer to two young men. Dunlop, Rev. Walter, opinion of Edward Irving.
Dunmore, Lord, and Billy Cream. 'D'ye think I dinna ken my ain groats in ither folk's kail?'

East Lothian minister and his betheral taking degrees at a northern
  college.
Economy, specimen of Scottish.
Edinburgh and Aberdeen provosts.
'E'ening brings a' hame,' expressed by Lord Byron.
Eglinton, Earl of, and little boy.
'Eh, man, your Psalm buik has been ill bund.'
'Eh, Miss Jeany! ye have been lang spared.'
Eldin, Lord (John Clerk), anecdotes of.
Election, answer of minister to question.
Elphinstone, Lord, and minister of Cumbernauld.
Endearment, Scottish terms of.
Englishman, an impruived.
Enterteening, curious use of word.
Episcopalian chapels, anecdote of Sir W. Forbes.
Erskine, Colonel, servant proposes an aith for his relief.
Erskine, Hon. Henry, dinner party at Lord Armadale's.
Erskine, Mr., of Dun, and his old servant.
Erskine of Dun, Miss.
Estate giving the name to proprietor.
Examinations of communicants
Expressions, old Scottish, and modern slang contrasted
Expressions, specimens of Scottish

Factors, proposal to sow field with 'Fah tee, fah tee' Fail, curious use of word Family worship
now more common Family worship, remark upon Farmer and servant boy Farmer, answer of, when
asked to take rhubarb tart Farmer, cool answer regarding notes Farmer on Deeside and bottle
of vinegar Farmer refusing a dessert spoon Farmer, Scottish, conversation with English girl
Farms, giving names to the tenants Fash as to taking a wife Fast-day, national, strictness
in observing 'Fat for should I gang to the opera just to creat a confeesion?' Fencing tables,
by an old minister Fencing the deil Fergusson of Pitfour and London lady Fettercairn, custom
of bowing to heritors Fife elder and penurious laird Fife, Lord, proposal to, by an idiot 'Fin'
a fardin' for yersell, puir body' Finzean, Laird of, swearing Fisher of men Fit raiment, explanation
of, by child Fleeman, Jamie, anecdote of Fleeman, Jamie, the Laird of Udny's fool, life of,
published 'Floorish o' the surface,' to describe a preacher Forbes, Mrs., of Medwyn, fond of
tea Forbes's banking-house, anecdotes of 'Formerly robbers, now thieves' Frail, curious use
of word Fraser, Jamie, address to minister in kirk Fraser, Jamie, idiot of Lunan Free Church,
road of, 'tolls unco high' 'Freet's dear! sin' I sauld freet in streets o' Aberdeen' French
people, a clause in their favour, by a Scottish minister Fruit, abstinence from, by minister
Fullerton, Miss Nelly, anecdote of Funeral, anecdote of, in Strathspey Funeral, carrying at,
or leaning Funeral, extraordinary account of a Scottish, at Carluke Funeral of a laird of Dundonald
Funeral, reason for a farmer taking another glass at Funeral, reason for a person being officious
at Funeral, taking orders for, on deathbed Funeral, the coffin forgotten at

Galloway Lady declining drink
Gardenstone, Lord, and his book at the inn
Gardenstone, Lord, and his pet pig
Gardenstone, Lord, exertions of, for Laurencekirk
Gardenstone, Lord, keeping snuff in his waistcoat pocket
Gardenstone, Lord, personal reminiscences of
Garskadden, Laird of, 'steppit awa' at table
General Assembly, minister's prayer for
George III., sickness of, advantageous to candlemakers
Ghost appearing to Watty Dunlop
Gilchrist, Dr., answer to young minister on Lord's Prayer
Gilchrist, Dr., answer to one of his hearers, who had changed his
  religion
Gillespie, Professor, and village carpenter
Gillespie, Rev. Mr., and old woman sleeping when he preached
Glasgow Cathedral, betheral's opinion of
Glasgow lady and carpenter
Glasgow, toast after dinner, hint to the ladies
Glenorchy, Lady, and the elder at the plate at Caprington
Glenorchy, Lady, removal of her remains on account of railroad
Gordon, Duchess of
Gordon, Duchess of, and the laird of Craigmyle
Gordon, Lady Susan, and David Tulloch
Graham, Miss Clementina Stirling, Mystifications by
Grave, making love at
Gregory, Dr., story of Highland chief
Grieve in Aberdeenshire, opinion of own wife
Grieve, on Deeside, opinion of young man's preaching
'Gude coorse country work'
Gudewife on Deeside
Guthrie, Helen, and her husband
Guy Mannering, extract from

HADDOCK, curious use of word 'Halbert, smells damnably of the' Hamilton, Laird, at the palace
asking the servant to sit down Hamilton, Laird, noted for eccentricity Hamilton, Laird, reasons
for not signing a bill Hamilton Rab, an idiot at Ayr Hamilton, Rab, idiot, anecdotes of Hangman,
Scotch drover acting as Harvest, returning thanks for good Hatter at Laurencekirk Heaven, little
boy's refusal of Heaven, old woman's idea of 'He bud tae big's dyke wi' the feal at fit o't'
He is awfu' 'supperstitious' 'He turned Seceder afore he dee'd, and I buried him like a beast'
'Hech, sirs, and he's weel pat on, too' 'Henny pig and green tea' Heritor sending the hangman
of Stirling to pay the minister Heritors, bowing to Hermand, Lord, great drinker, but first-rate
lawyer Hermand, Lord, jokes with young advocate Hermand, Lord, opinion of drinking Highland
chairman Highland chief, story of Highland gentleman, first time in London Highland honours
Highland inquisitiveness Highlands kept up the custom of clans or races Hill, Dr., Latin translation
of Scottish expressions His girn's waur than his bite Holy communion, several anecdotes concerning
Home, John, author of Douglas, lines on port wine Home, John, remark of, to David Hume 'Honest
men and bonnie lassies' 'Honest woman, what garr'd ye steal your neighbour's tub?' Honesty
declared the best policy, why? 'Indeed, sir, I wish I wur.' India, St. Andrew's day kept in,
by Scotchmen. 'I never big dykes till the tenants complain.' Innes, Jock, remark upon hats
and heads. Innkeeper's bill, reason for being moderate. Interchange of words between minister
and flock in church. Intercourse between classes changed. Jacobite lady, reason for not rising
from her chair. Jacobite toasts. Jacobite's prayer for the King. Jamie Layal, old servant,
anecdotes of. Jeems Robson, ye are sleepin'. 'Jemmy, you are drunk.' Jock, daft, attending
funeral at Wigtown. Jock Grey, supposed original of David Gellatley. Jock Wabster, 'deil gaes
ower,' a proverb. John Brown, burgher minister, and an 'auld wifie.' John, eccentric servant,
anecdotes of. Johnstone, Miss, of Westerhall, specimen of fine old Scotch lady. Johnstone,
Rev. Dr., of Leith, and old woman, on the decrees of God. Johnstone, Rev. Mr., of Monquhitter,
and travelling piper. Judges, Scottish, former peculiarities as a type. Judges, Scottish, in
Kay's Portraits.

Kail, curious use of word. Kames, Lord, a keen agriculturist. Kames, Lord, his joke with Lord
Monboddo. 'Kaming her husband's head.' Kay's Portraits. Keith, Mrs., of Ravelston, her remark
to Sir W. Scott on old books. Kilspindie, Laird of, and Tannachy Tulloch. Kindly feelings between
minister and people. Kirkyard crack. Kirkyard crack superseded by newspapers.

Ladies of Montrose, anecdotes of.
Ladies, old, of Montrose.
Lady, old maiden, of Montrose, reason
   for not subscribing to volunteer fund.
Lady, old, of Montrose, objections to
   steam vessels, and gas, and water-carts.
Lady, old Scotch, remark on loss of her box.
Lady, Scottish, Lord Cockburn's account of.
Lady's, old, answer to her doctor.
Laird, parsimonious, and fool.
Laird, parsimonious, and plate at church-door.
Laird, reason against taking his son into the world.
Laird reproaches his brother for not taking a wife.
Laird, saving, picking up a farthing.
Laird, Scottish, delighted that Christmas had run away.
Lamb, Charles, saw no wit in Scotch people.
Land, differences of, in produce.
Sabbath-day, eggs ought not to be laid on.
Sabbath-day known by a hare.
Sabbath day, where children go who play marbles on.
Sabbath desecration, geologist in the Highlands.
Sabbath desecration, stopping the jack for.
Sandy, fine specimen of old servant.
'Sayawa', sir; we're a' sittin' to cheat the dowgs.'
Scotchman, notion of things in London.
Scotchman of the old school, judgment of, upon an Englishman.
Scotchman on losing his wife and cow.
Scotch minister and his diary regarding quarrels with wife.
Scott, Dr., minister of Carluke.
Scott, Dr., on his parishioners dancing.
Scott, Rev. Robert, his idea of Nelson's order.
Scott, Rev. R., of Cranwell, anecdote of young carpenter.
Scott, Sir Walter, and the blacksmith on the battle of Flodden.
Scott, Sir Walter, did not write poetry in Scottish dialect.
Scott, Sir Walter, his story of sale of antiques.
Scott, Sir Walter, his story of two relatives who joined the Pretender.
Scott, Sir Walter, just in time to save Minstrelsy of the Border.
Scotland, past and present.
Scotticisms, expressive, pointed, and pithy.
Scotticisms, remarks on, by Sir John Sinclair and Dr. Beattie.
Scottish architect on English leases.
Scottish boy cleverness.
Scottish conviviality, old.
Scottish cookery.
Scottish dialect, difference between Aberdeen and Southern Scotch.
Scottish dialect, reference of, to English.
Scottish dialect, specimens of.
Scottish economy, specimen of, in London.
Scottish elders and ministers, anecdotes of.
Scottish expressions, examples of peculiar applications.
Scottish expressions, illustrated by a letter to a young married lady
  from an old aunt.
Scottish gentleman in London.
Scottish humour and Scottish wit.
Scottish humour, specimen of, in a Fife lass.
Scottish minstrelsy.
Scottish music, charm of.
Scottish peasantry, character of.
Scottish peasantry, religious feelings of.
Scottish peasantry, religious feelings of, changed.
Scottish phraseology, articles on, in Blackwood.
Scottish psalm-tunes, some written by operatives.
Scottish shepherd and Lord Cockburn.
Scottish shepherd and Lord Rutherford.
Scottish songs, collections of.
Scottish stories of wit and humour.
Scottish verses, charm of.
Scottish words of French derivation.
Scottishness of the national humour.
Seceder, an old, would not enter parish church.
Secession Church, professor in, to a young student.
Sedan chairs.
Sermon consumed by mice.
Sermons, change of character of.
Servant and dog Pickle at Yester.
Servant, answer of, to his irascible master.
Servant, answer of, when told to go.
Servant and Lord Lothian.
Servant, Mrs. Murray, and the spoon.
Servant of Mrs. Ferguson of Pitfour.
Servant of Mrs. Fullerton of Montrose.
Servant, old, reason for doing as he liked.
Servant praying for her minister.
Servant taxed with being drunk, his answer.
Servants, domestic Scottish.
'She juist felled hersel at Graigo wi' straeberries and 'ream.'
'She's bonnier than she's better.'
'She will be near me to close my een.'
Shireff, Rev. Mr., and member of his church who had left him.
Shirra, Rev. Mr., on David saying 'All men are liars.'
Shot, a bad one, complimented on success.
Siddons, Mrs., respected by Edinburgh clergy.
Silly, curious use of the word.
Singing birds, absence of, in America.
Sins, Aberdeen mother proud of.
'Sir, baby I'll come farther.'
'Sit in a box drawn by brutes.'
Skinner, Bishop, and Aberdeen old couple.
Skinner, John, Jacobitism of.
Skinner, John, of Langside, his defence of prayer-book.
Skinner, Rev. John, author of several Scottish songs.
Skinner, Rev. John, lines on his grandson leaving Montrose.
Skinner, Rev. John, passing an Anti-burgher chapel.
Sleeping in church.
Sleeping in church, and snuffing.
Slockin'd, never, apology for drinking.
Smith, Adam, marked as most eccentric.
Smith, Sydney, opinion of Scottish wit.
Smuggler, case of one in church.
'Sneck the door.'
Snuff-box handed round in churches.
Snuff, grand accommodation for.
Snuff, pu'pit soopit for.
Snuff put into the sermon.
Snuff-taking.
Soldier, an old, of the 42d, cautious about the name of Graham.
'Some fowk like parritch, and some like paddocks.'
'Some strong o' the aaple.'
Songs, drinking.
Sovereign, when new, a curiosity.
Speat o' praying and speat o' drinking.
Speir, daft Will, and Earl of Eglinton.
Speir, daft Will, answer to master about his dinner.
Spinster, elderly, arch reply to, by a younger member.
Stipend, minister's, reasons against its being large.
Stirling of Keir, evidence in favour of, by the miller of Keir.
Stirling of Keir, lecture on proverbs.
Stra'von, wife's desire to be buried in.
Strikes, answer upon, by a master.
Stewart, Rev. Patrick, sermon consumed by mice.
Stone removed out of the way.
Stool, a three-legged, thrown at husband by wife.
Stout lady, remark of.
Stranraer, old ladies on the British victories over the French.
Sunday sometimes included in Saturday's drinking party.
Suppers once prevalent in Scotland.
Sutherland, Colonel Sandy, his dislike to the French.
Swearing by Laird of Finzean.
Swearing by Perth writer.
Swearing common in Scotland formerly.
Swine, dislike of, in Scotland.
Swinophobia, reasons for.
Smith, Sydney, remarks of, on men not at church.

Tailor, apology for his clothes not fitting.
'Take out that dog; he'd wauken a Glasgow magistrate.'
Taylor, Mr., of London, description of his theatre by his father from
  Aberdeen.
Term-time offensive to Scottish lairds.
Texts, remarks upon.
'That's a lee, Jemmie.'
Theatre, clergy used to attend, in 1784.
Theatre, clerical non-attendance.
'The breet's stannin' i' the peel wi ma.'
'The deil a ane shall pray for them on my plaid.'
The fool and the miller.
'The man reads.'
'Them 'at drink by themsells may just fish by themsells.'
'There'll be a walth o' images there.'
'There's Kinnaird greetin' as if there was nae a saunt on earth but
  himself and the King o' France.

