The War Romance of the Salvation Army

by

Evangeline Booth

Commander-in-Chief, The Salvation Army in America

and

Grace Livingston Hill

Author of "The Enchanted Barn"; "The Best Man"; "Lo Michael"; "The Red Signal," etc.

Copyright 1919, by J. T. Lippincot Company

Foreword

In presenting the narrative of some of the doings of the Salvation Army during the world's
great conflict for liberty, I am but answering the insistent call of a most generous and appreciative
public.

When moved to activity by the apparent need, there was never a thought that our humble services
would awaken the widespread admiration that has developed.  In fact, we did not expect anything
further than appreciative recognition from those immediately benefited, and the knowledge that
our people have proved so useful is an abundant compensation for all toil and sacrifice, for
service is our watchword, and there is no reward equal to that of doing the most good to the
most people in the most need. When our National Armies were being gathered for overseas work,
the likelihood of a great need was self-evident, and the most logical and most natural thing
for the Salvation Army to do was to hold itself in readiness for action.  That we were straitened
in our circumstances is well understood, more so by us than by anybody else.  The story as
told in these pages is necessarily incomplete, for the obvious reason that the work is yet
in progress.  We entered France ahead of our Expeditionary Forces, and it is my purpose to
continue my people's ministries until the last of our troops return.  At the present moment
the number of our workers overseas equals that of any day yet experienced.

Because of the pressure that this service brings, together with the unmentioned executive cares
incident to the vast work of the Salvation Army in these United States, I felt compelled to
requisition some competent person to aid me in the literary work associated with the production
of a concrete story. In this I was most fortunate, for a writer of established worth and national
fame in the person of Mrs. Grace Livingston Hill came to my assistance; and having for many
days had the privilege of working with her in the sifting process, gathering from the mass
of matter that had accumulated and which was being daily added to, with every confidence I
am able to commend her patience and toil. How well she has done her work the book will bear
its own testimony.

This foreword would be incomplete were I to fail in acknowledging in a very definite way the
lavish expressions of gratitude that have abounded on the part of "The Boys" themselves. This
is our reward, and is a very great encouragement to us to continue a growing and more permanent
effort for their welfare, which is comprehended in our plans for the future.  The official
support given has been of the highest and most generous character. Marshal Foch himself most
kindly cabled me, and General Pershing has upon several occasions inspired us with commendatory
words of the greatest worth.

Our beloved President has been pleased to reflect the people's pleasure and his own personal
gratification upon what the Salvation Army has accomplished with the troops, which good-will
we shall ever regard as one of our greatest honors.

The lavish eulogy and sincere affection bestowed by the nation upon the organization I can
only account for by the simple fact that our ministering members have been in spirit and reality
with the men.

True to our first light, first teaching, and first practices, we have always put ourselves
close beside the man irrespective of whether his condition is fair or foul; whether his surroundings
are peaceful or perilous; whether his prospects are promising or threatening. As a people we
have felt that to be of true service to others we must be close enough to them to lift part
of their load and thus carry out that grand injunction of the Apostle Paul, "Bear ye one another's
burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ."

The Salvation Army upon the battlefields of France has but worked along the same lines as in
the great cities of the nations. We are, with our every gift to serve, close up to those in
need; and so, as Lieut.-Colonel Roosevelt put it, "Whatever the lot of the men, the Salvation
Army is found with them."

We never permit any superiority of position, or breeding, or even grace to make a gap between
us and any who may be less fortunate. To help another, you must be near enough to catch the
heart-beat. And so a large measure of our success in the war is accounted for by the fact that
we have been with them. With a hundred thousand Salvationists on all fronts, and tens and tens
of thousands of Salvationists at their ministering posts in the homelands as well as overseas,
from the time that each of the Allied countries entered the war the Salvation Army has been
with the fighting- men.

With them in the thatched cottage on the hillside, and in the humble dwelling in the great
towns of the homelands, when they faced the great ordeal of wishing good-bye to mothers and
fathers and wives and children.

With them in the blood-soaked furrows of old fields; with them in the desolation of No Man's
Land; and with them amid the indescribable miseries and gory horrors of the battlefield. With
them with the sweetest ministry, trained in the art of service, white-souled, brave, tender-hearted
men and women could render.

[Evangeline Booth]

NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS SALVATION ARMY, NEW YORK CITY.

April, 1919.

From the Commander's Own Pen

The war is over. The world's greatest tragedy is arrested. The awful pull at men's heart-strings
relaxed. The inhuman monster that leapt out of the darkness and laid blood-hands upon every
home of a peace-blest earth has been overthrown. Autocracy and diabolical tyranny lie defeated
and crushed behind the long rows of white crosses that stand like sign-posts pointing heavenward,
all the way from the English Channel to the Adriatic, linking the two by an inseverable chain.

While the nations were in the throes of the conflict, I was constrained to speak and write
of the Salvation Army's activities in the frightful struggle. Now that all is over and I reflect
upon the price the nations have paid I realize much hesitancy in so doing.

When I think of England-where almost every man you meet is but a piece of a man! France--one
great graveyard! Its towns and cities a wilderness of waste! The allied countries--Italy, and
deathless little Belgium, and Serbia--well-nigh exterminated in the desperate, gory struggle!
When I think upon it--the price America has paid! The price her heroic sons have paid! They
that come down the gangways of the returning boats on crutches! They that are carried down
on stretchers! They that sail into New York Harbor, young and fair, but never again to see
the Statue of Liberty! The price that dear mothers and fathers have paid! The price that the
tens of thousands of little children have paid! The price they that sleep in the lands they
made free have paid! When I think upon all this, it is with no little reluctance that I now
write of the small part taken by the Salvation Army in the world's titanic sacrifice for liberty,
but which part we shall ever regard as our life's crowning honor.

Expressions of surprise from officers of all ranks as well as the private soldier have vied
with those of gratitude concerning the efficiency of this service, but no thought of having
accomplished any achievement higher than their simplest duty is entertained by the Salvationists
themselves; for uniformly they feel that they have but striven to measure up to the high standards
of service maintained by the Salvation Army, which standards ask of its officers all over the
world that no effort shall be left unprosecuted, no sacrifice unrendered, which will help to
meet the need at their door.

And it is such high standards of devoted service to our fellow, linked with the practical nature
of the movement's operations, the deeply religious character of its members, its intelligent
system of government, uniting, and thus augmenting, all its activities; with the immense advantage
of the military training provided by the organization, that give to its officers a potency
and adaptability that have for the greater period of our brief lifetime made us an influential
factor in seasons of civic and national disaster.

When that beautiful city of the Golden Gate, San Francisco, was laid low by earthquake and
fire, the Salvationists were the first upon the ground with blankets, and clothes, and food,
gathering frightened little children, looking after old age, and rescuing many from the burning
and falling buildings.

At the time of the wild rush to the Klondike, the Salvation Army was, with its sweet, pure
women--the only women amidst tens of thousands of men-- upon the mountain-side of the Chilcoot
Pass saving the lives of the gold- seekers, and telling those shattered by disappointment of
treasure that "doth not perish."

At the time of the Jamestown, the Galveston, and the Dayton floods the Salvation Army officer,
with his boat laden with sandwiches and warm wraps, was the first upon the rising waters, ministering
to marooned and starving families gathered upon the housetops.

In the direful disaster that swept over the beautiful city of Halifax, the Mayor of that city
stated: "I do not know what I should have done the first two or three days following the explosion,
when everyone was panic- stricken without the ready, intelligent, and unbroken day-and-night
efforts of the Salvation Army."

On numerous other similar occasions we have relieved distress and sorrow by our almost instantaneous
service. Hence when our honored President decided that our National Emblem, heralder of the
inalienable rights of man, should cross the seas and wave for the freedom of the peoples of
the earth, automatically the Salvation Army moved with it, and our officers passed to the varying
posts of helpfulness which the emergency demanded.

Now on all sides I am confronted with the question: What is the secret of the Salvation Army's
success in the war?

Permit me to suggests three reasons which, in my judgment, account for it:

First, when the war-bolt fell, when the clarion call sounded, it found the Salvation Army ready!

Ready not only with our material machinery, but with that precious piece of human mechanism
which is indispensable to all great and high achievement--the right calibre of man, and the
right calibre of woman. Men and women equipped by a careful training for the work they would
have to do.

We were not many in number, I admit. In France our numbers have been regrettably few. But this
is because I have felt it was better to fall short in quantity than to run the risk in falling
short in quality. Quality is its own multiplication table. Quality without quantity will spread,
whereas quantity without quality will shrink. Therefore, I would not send any officers to France
except such as had been fully equipped in our training schools.

Few have even a remote idea of the extensive training given to all Salvation Army officers
by our military system of education, covering all the tactics of that particular warfare to
which they have consecrated their lives--the service of humanity.

We have in the Salvation Army thirty-nine Training Schools in which our own men and women,
both for our missionary and home fields, receive an intelligent tuition and practical training
in the minutest details of their service. They are trained in the finest and most intricate
of all the arts, the art of dealing ably with human life.

It is a wonderful art which transfigures a sheet of cold grey canvas into a throbbing vitality,
and on its inanimate spread visualizes a living picture from which one feels they can never
turn their eyes away.

It is a wonderful art which takes a rugged, knotted block of marble, standing upon a coarse
wooden bench, and cuts out of its uncomely crudeness--as I saw it done--the face of my father,
with its every feature illumined with prophetic light, so true to life that I felt that to
my touch it surely must respond.

But even such arts as these crumble; they are as dust under our feet compared with that much
greater art, the art of dealing ably with human life in all its varying conditions and phases.

It is in this art that we seek by a most careful culture and training to perfect our officers.

They are trained in those expert measures which enable them to handle satisfactorily those
that cannot handle themselves, those that have lost their grip on things, and that if unaided
go down under the high, rough tides. Trained to meet emergencies of every character--to leap
into the breach, to span the gulf, and to do it without waiting to be told how.

Trained to press at every cost for the desired and decided-upon end.

Trained to obey orders willingly, and gladly, and wholly--not in part.

Trained to give no quarter to the enemy, no matter what the character, nor in what form he
may present himself, and to never consider what personal advantage may be derived.

Trained in the art of the winsome, attractive coquetries of the round, brown doughnut and all
its kindred.

Trained, if needs be, to seal their services with their life's blood.

One of our women officers, on being told by the colonel of the regiment she would be killed
if she persisted in serving her doughnuts and cocoa to the men while under heavy fire, and
that she must get back to safety, replied: "Colonel, we can die with the men, but we cannot
leave them."

When, therefore, I gathered the little companies together for their last charge before they
sailed for France, I would tell them that while I was unable to arm them with many of the advantages
of the more wealthy denominations; that while I could give them only a very few assistants
owing to the great demand upon our forces; and that while I could promise them nothing beyond
their bare expenses, yet I knew that without fear I could rely upon them for an unsurpassed
devotion to the God-inspired standards of the emblem of this, the world's greatest Republic,
the Stars and Stripes, now in the van for the freedom of the peoples of the earth. That I could
rely upon them for unsurpassed devotion to the brave men who laid their lives upon the altar
of their country's protection, and that I could rely upon them for an unsurpassed devotion
to that other banner, the Banner of Calvary, the significance of which has not changed in nineteen
centuries, and by the standards of which, alone, all the world's wrongs can be redressed, and
by the standards of which alone men can be liberated from all their bondage. And they have
not failed.

A further reason for the success of the Salvation Army in the war is, it found us accustomed
to hardship.

We are a people who have thrived on adversity. Opposition, persecution, privation, abuse, hunger,
cold and want were with us at the starting-post, and have journeyed with us all along the course.

