THE LIFE OF MICHELANGELO BUONARROTI

By JOHN ADDINGTON SYMONDS

TO THE CAVALIERE GUIDO BIAGI, DOCTOR IN LETTERS, PREFECT OF THE MEDICEO-LAURENTIAN LIBRARY,
ETC., ETC.

I DEDICATE THIS WORK ON MICHELANGELO IN RESPECT FOR HIS SCHOLARSHIP AND LEARNING ADMIRATION
OF HIS TUSCAN STYLE AND GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF HIS GENEROUS ASSISTANCE

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

   I. BIRTH, BOYHOOD, YOUTH AT FLORENCE, DOWN TO LORENZO DE' MEDICI'S
      DEATH. 1475-1492.

  II. FIRST VISITS TO BOLOGNA AND ROME--THE MADONNA DELLA FEBBRE AND
      OTHER WORKS IN MARBLE. 1492-1501.

 III. RESIDENCE IN FLORENCE--THE DAVID. 1501-1505.

  IV. JULIUS II. CALLS MICHELANGELO TO ROME--PROJECT FOR THE POPE'S
      TOMB--THE REBUILDING OF S. PETER'S--FLIGHT FROM ROME--CARTOON
      FOR THE BATTLE OF PISA. 1505, 1506.

   V. SECOND VISIT TO BOLOGNA--THE BRONZE STATUE OF JULIUS
      II--PAINTING OF THE SISTINE VAULT. 1506-1512.

  VI. ON MICHELANGELO AS DRAUGHTSMAN, PAINTER, SCULPTOR.

 VII. LEO X. PLANS FOR THE CHURCH OF S. LORENZO AT
      FLORENCE--MICHELANGELO'S LIFE AT CARRARA. 1513-1521.

VIII. ADRIAN VI AND CLEMENT VII--THE SACRISTY AND LIBRARY OF S.
      LORENZO. 1521-1526.

  IX. SACK OF ROME AND SIEGE OF FLORENCE--MICHELANGELO'S FLIGHT TO
      VENICE--HIS RELATIONS TO THE MEDICI. 1527-1534.

   X. ON MICHELANGELO AS ARCHITECT.

  XI. FINAL SETTLEMENT IN ROME--PAUL III.--THE LAST JUDGMENT AND THE
      PAOLINE CHAPEL--THE TOMB OF JULIUS. 1535-1542.

 XII. VITTORIA COLONNA AND TOMMASO CAVALIERI--MICHELANGELO AS POET AND
      MAN OF FEELING.

XIII. MICHELANGELO APPOINTED ARCHITECT-IN-CHIEF AT THE
      VATICAN--HISTORY OF S. PETER'S. 1542-1557.

 XIV. LAST YEARS OF LIFE--MICHELANGELO'S PORTRAITS--ILLNESS OF OLD
      AGE. 1557-1564.

  XV. DEATH AT ROME--BURIAL AND OBSEQUIES AT
      FLORENCE--ANECDOTES--ESTIMATE OF MICHELANGELO AS MAN AND ARTIST.

THE LIFE OF MICHELANGELO BUONARROTI

CHAPTER I

I

The Buonarroti Simoni, to whom Michelangelo belonged, were a Florentine family of ancient burgher
nobility. Their arms appear to have been originally "azure two bends or." To this coat was
added "a label of four points gules inclosing three fleur-de-lys or." That augmentation, adopted
from the shield of Charles of Anjou, occurs upon the scutcheons of many Guelf houses and cities.
In the case of the Florentine Simoni, it may be ascribed to the period when Buonarrota di Simone
Simoni held office as a captain of the Guelf party (1392). Such, then, was the paternal coat
borne by the subject of this Memoir. His brother Buonarroto received a further augmentation
in 1515 from Leo X., to wit: "upon a chief or, a pellet azure charged with fleur-de-lys or,
between the capital letters L. and X." At the same time he was created Count Palatine. The
old and simple bearing of the two bends was then crowded down into the extreme base of the
shield, while the Angevine label found room beneath the chief.

According to a vague tradition, the Simoni drew their blood from the high and puissant Counts
of Canossa. Michelangelo himself believed in this pedigree, for which there is, however, no
foundation in fact, and no heraldic corroboration. According to his friend and biographer Condivi,
the sculptor's first Florentine ancestor was a Messer Simone dei Conti di Canossa, who came
in 1250 as Podestà to Florence. "The eminent qualities of this man gained for him admission
into the burghership of the city, and he was appointed captain of a Sestiere; for Florence
in those days was divided into Sestieri, instead of Quartieri, as according to the present
usage." Michelangelo's contemporary, the Count Alessandro da Canossa, acknowledged this relationship.
Writing on the 9th of October 1520, he addresses the then famous sculptor as "honoured kinsman,"
and gives the following piece of information: "Turning over my old papers, I have discovered
that a Messere Simone da Canossa was Podestà of Florence, as I have already mentioned to the
above-named Giovanni da Reggio." Nevertheless, it appears now certain that no Simone da Canossa
held the office of Podestà at Florence in the thirteenth century. The family can be traced
up to one Bernardo, who died before the year 1228. His grandson was called Buonarrota, and
the fourth in descent was Simone. These names recur frequently in the next generations. Michelangelo
always addressed his father as "Lodovico di Lionardo di Buonarrota Simoni," or "Louis, the
son of Leonard, son of Buonarrota Simoni;" and he used the family surname of Simoni in writing
to his brothers and his nephew Lionardo. Yet he preferred to call himself Michelangelo Buonarroti;
and after his lifetime Buonarroti became fixed for the posterity of his younger brother. "The
reason," says Condivi, "why the family in Florence changed its name from Canossa to Buonarroti
was this: Buonarroto continued for many generations to be repeated in their house, down to
the time of Michelangelo, who had a brother of that name; and inasmuch as several of these
Buonarroti held rank in the supreme magistracy of the republic, especially the brother I have
just mentioned, who filled the office of Prior during Pope Leo's visit to Florence, as may
be read in the annals of that city, this baptismal name, by force of frequent repetition, became
the cognomen of the whole family; the more easily, because it is the custom at Florence, in
elections and nominations of officers, to add the Christian names of the father, grandfather,
great-grandfather, and sometimes even of remoter ancestors, to that of each citizen. Consequently,
through the many Buonarroti who followed one another, and from the Simone who was the first
founder of the house in Florence, they gradually came to be called Buonarroti Simoni, which
is their present designation." Excluding the legend about Simone da Canossa, this is a pretty
accurate account of what really happened. Italian patronymics were formed indeed upon the same
rule as those of many Norman families in Great Britain. When the use of Di and Fitz expired,
Simoni survived from Di Simone, as did my surname Symonds from Fitz-Symond.

On the 6th of March 1475, according to our present computation, Lodovico di Lionardo Buonarroti
Simoni wrote as follows in his private notebook: "I record that on this day, March 6, 1474,
a male child was born to me. I gave him the name of Michelangelo, and he was born on a Monday
morning four or five hours before daybreak, and he was born while I was Podestà of Caprese,
and he was born at Caprese; and the godfathers were those I have named below. He was baptized
on the eighth of the same month in the Church of San Giovanni at Caprese. These are the godfathers:--

  DON DANIELLO DI SER BUONAGUIDA of Florence,
Rector of San Giovanni at Caprese;
  DON ANDREA DI .... of Poppi, Rector of the Abbey
  of Diasiano (i.e., Dicciano);
  JACOPO DI FRANCESCO of Casurio (?);
  MARCO DI GIORGIO of Caprese;
  GIOVANNI DI BIAGIO of Caprese;
  ANDREA DI BIAGIO of Caprese;
  FRANCESCO DI JACOPO DEL ANDUINO (?) of Caprese;
  SER BARTOLOMMEO DI SANTI DEL LANSE (?), Notary."

Note that the date is March 6, 1474, according to Florentine usage ab incarnatione, and according
to the Roman usage, a nativitate, it is 1475.

Vasari tells us that the planets were propitious at the moment of Michelangelo's nativity:
"Mercury and Venus having entered with benign aspect into the house of Jupiter, which indicated
that marvellous and extraordinary works, both of manual art and intellect, were to be expected
from him."

II

Caprese, from its beauty and remoteness, deserved to be the birthplace of a great artist. It
is not improbable that Lodovico Buonarroti and his wife Francesca approached it from Pontassieve
in Valdarno, crossing the little pass of Consuma, descending on the famous battle-field of
Campaldino, and skirting the ancient castle of the Conti Guidi at Poppi. Every step in the
romantic journey leads over ground hallowed by old historic memories. From Poppi the road descends
the Arno to a richly cultivated district, out of which emerges on its hill the prosperous little
town of Bibbiena. High up to eastward springs the broken crest of La Vernia, a mass of hard
millstone rock (macigno) jutting from desolate beds of lime and shale at the height of some
3500 feet above the sea. It was here, among the sombre groves of beech and pine which wave
along the ridge, that S. Francis came to found his infant Order, composed the Hymn to the Sun,
and received the supreme honour of the stigmata. To this point Dante retired when the death
of Henry VII. extinguished his last hopes for Italy. At one extremity of the wedge-like block
which forms La Vernia, exactly on the watershed between Arno and Tiber, stands the ruined castle
of Chiusi in Casentino. This was one of the two chief places of Lodovico Buonarroti's podesteria.
It may be said to crown the valley of the Arno; for the waters gathered here flow downwards
toward Arezzo, and eventually wash the city walls of Florence. A few steps farther, travelling
south, we pass into the valley of the Tiber, and, after traversing a barren upland region for
a couple of hours, reach the verge of the descent upon Caprese. Here the landscape assumes
a softer character. Far away stretch blue Apennines, ridge melting into ridge above Perugia
in the distance. Gigantic oaks begin to clothe the stony hillsides, and little by little a
fertile mountain district of chestnut-woods and vineyards expands before our eyes, equal in
charm to those aërial hills and vales above Pontremoli. Caprese has no central commune or head-village.
It is an aggregate of scattered hamlets and farmhouses, deeply embosomed in a sea of greenery.
Where the valley contracts and the infant Tiber breaks into a gorge, rises a wooded rock crowned
with the ruins of an ancient castle. It was here, then, that Michelangelo first saw the light.
When we discover that he was a man of more than usually nervous temperament, very different
in quality from any of his relatives, we must not forget what a fatiguing journey had been
performed by his mother, who was then awaiting her delivery. Even supposing that Lodovico Buonarroti
travelled from Florence by Arezzo to Caprese, many miles of rough mountain-roads must have
been traversed by her on horseback.

III

Ludovico, who, as we have seen, was Podestà of Caprese and of Chiusi in the Casentino, had
already one son by his first wife, Francesca, the daughter of Neri di Miniato del Sera and
Bonda Rucellai. This elder brother, Lionardo, grew to manhood, and become a devoted follower
of Savonarola. Under the influence of the Ferrarese friar, he determined to abjure the world,
and entered the Dominican Order in 1491. We know very little about him, and he is only once
mentioned in Michelangelo's correspondence. Even this reference cannot be considered certain.
Writing to his father from Rome, July 1, 1497, Michelangelo says: "I let you know that Fra
Lionardo returned hither to Rome. He says that he was forced to fly from Viterbo, and that
his frock had been taken from him, wherefore he wished to go there (i.e., to Florence). So
I gave him a golden ducat, which he asked for; and I think you ought already to have learned
this, for he should be there by this time." When Lionardo died is uncertain. We only know that
he was in the convent of S. Mark at Florence in the year 1510. Owing to this brother's adoption
of the religious life, Michelangelo became, early in his youth, the eldest son of Lodovico's
family. It will be seen that during the whole course of his long career he acted as the mainstay
of his father, and as father to his younger brothers. The strength and the tenacity of his
domestic affections are very remarkable in a man who seems never to have thought of marrying.
"Art," he used to say, "is a sufficiently exacting mistress." Instead of seeking to beget children
for his own solace, he devoted himself to the interests of his kinsmen.

The office of Podestà lasted only six months, and at the expiration of this term Lodovico returned
to Florence. He put the infant Michelangelo out to nurse in the village of Settignano, where
the Buonarroti Simoni owned a farm. Most of the people of that district gained their livelihood
in the stone-quarries around Settignano and Maiano on the hillside of Fiesole. Michelangelo's
foster-mother was the daughter and the wife of stone-cutters. "George," said he in after-years
to his friend Vasari, "if I possess anything of good in my mental constitution, it comes from
my having been born in your keen climate of Arezzo; just as I drew the chisel and the mallet
with which I carve statues in together with my nurse's milk."

When Michelangelo was of age to go to school, his father put him under a grammarian at Florence
named Francesco da Urbino. It does not appear, however, that he learned more than reading and
writing in Italian, for later on in life we find him complaining that he knew no Latin. The
boy's genius attracted him irresistibly to art. He spent all his leisure time in drawing, and
frequented the society of youths who were apprenticed to masters in painting and sculpture.
Among these he contracted an intimate friendship with Francesco Granacci, at that time in the
workshop of Domenico Ghirlandajo. Granacci used to lend him drawings by Ghirlandajo, and inspired
him with the resolution to become a practical artist. Condivi says that "Francesco's influence,
combined with the continual craving of his nature, made him at last abandon literary studies.
This brought the boy into disfavour with his father and uncles, who often used to beat him
severely; for, being insensible to the excellence and nobility of Art, they thought it shameful
to give her shelter in their house. Nevertheless, albeit their opposition caused him the greatest
sorrow, it was not sufficient to deter him from his steady purpose. On the contrary, growing
even bolder he determined to work in colours." Condivi, whose narrative preserves for us Michelangelo's
own recollections of his youthful years, refers to this period the painted copy made by the
young draughtsman from a copper-plate of Martin Schöngauer. We should probably be right in
supposing that the anecdote is slightly antedated. I give it, however, as nearly as possible
in the biographer's own words. "Granacci happened to show him a print of S. Antonio tormented
by the devils. This was the work of Martino d'Olanda, a good artist for the times in which
he lived; and Michelangelo transferred the composition to a panel. Assisted by the same friend
with colours and brushes, he treated his subject in so masterly a way that it excited surprise
in all who saw it, and even envy, as some say, in Domenico, the greatest painter of his age.
In order to diminish the extraordinary impression produced by this picture, Ghirlandajo went
about saying that it came out of his own workshop, as though he had some part in the performance.
While engaged on this piece, which, beside the figure of the saint, contained many strange
forms and diabolical monstrosities, Michelangelo coloured no particular without going first
to Nature and comparing her truth with his fancies. Thus he used to frequent the fish-market,
and study the shape and hues of fishes' fins, the colour of their eyes, and so forth in the
case of every part belonging to them; all of which details he reproduced with the utmost diligence
in his painting." Whether this transcript from Schöngauer was made as early as Condivi reports
may, as I have said, be reasonably doubted. The anecdote is interesting, however, as showing
in what a naturalistic spirit Michelangelo began to work. The unlimited mastery which he acquired
over form, and which certainly seduced him at the close of his career into a stylistic mannerism,
was based in the first instance upon profound and patient interrogation of reality.

IV

Lodovico perceived at length that it was useless to oppose his son's natural bent. Accordingly,
he sent him into Ghirlandajo's workshop. A minute from Ghirlandajo's ledger, under the date
1488, gives information regarding the terms of the apprenticeship. "I record this first of
April how I, Lodovico di Lionardo di Buonarrota, bind my son Michelangelo to Domenico and Davit
di Tommaso di Currado for the next three ensuing years, under these conditions and contracts:
to wit, that the said Michelangelo shall stay with the above-named masters during this time,
to learn the art of painting, and to practise the same, and to be at the orders of the above-named;
and they, for their part, shall give to him in the course of these three years twenty-four
florins (fiorini di suggello): to wit, six florins in the first year, eight in the second,
ten in the third; making in all the sum of ninety-six pounds (lire)." A postscript, dated April
16th of the same year, 1488, records that two florins were paid to Michelangelo upon that day.

It seems that Michelangelo retained no very pleasant memory of his sojourn with the Ghirlandajo
brothers. Condivi, in the passage translated above, hints that Domenico was jealous of him.
He proceeds as follows: "This jealousy betrayed itself still more when Michelangelo once begged
the loan of a certain sketch-book, wherein Domenico had portrayed shepherds with their flocks
and watchdogs, landscapes, buildings, ruins, and such-like things. The master refused to lend
it; and indeed he had the fame of being somewhat envious; for not only showed he thus scant
courtesy toward Michelangelo, but he also treated his brother likewise, sending him into France
when he saw that he was making progress and putting forth great promise; and doing this not
so much for any profit to David, as that he might himself remain the first of Florentine painters.
I have thought fit to mention these things, because I have been told that Domenico's son is
wont to ascribe the genius and divinity of Michelangelo in great part to his father's teaching,
whereas the truth is that he received no assistance from that master. I ought, however, to
add that Michelangelo does not complain: on the contrary, he praises Domenico both as artist
and as man."

This passage irritated Vasari beyond measure. He had written his first Life of Michelangelo
in 1550. Condivi published his own modest biography in 1553, with the expressed intention of
correcting errors and supplying deficiencies made by "others," under which vague word he pointed
probably at Vasari. Michelangelo, who furnished Condivi with materials, died in 1564; and Vasari,
in 1568, issued a second enlarged edition of the Life, into which he cynically incorporated
what he chose to steal from Condivi's sources. The supreme Florentine sculptor being dead and
buried, Vasari felt that he was safe in giving the lie direct to this humble rival biographer.
Accordingly, he spoke as follows about Michelangelo's relations with Domenico Ghirlandajo:
"He was fourteen years of age when he entered that master's service, and inasmuch as one (Condivi),
who composed his biography after 1550, when I had published these Lives for the first time,
declares that certain persons, from want of familiarity with Michelangelo, have recorded things
that did not happen, and have omitted others worthy of relation; and in particular has touched
upon the point at issue, accusing Domenico of envy, and saying that he never rendered Michelangelo
assistance."--Here Vasari, out of breath with indignation, appeals to the record of Lodovico's
contract with the Ghirlandajo brothers. "These minutes," he goes on to say, "I copied from
the ledger, in order to show that everything I formerly published, or which will be published
at the present time, is truth. Nor am I acquainted with any one who had greater familiarity
with Michelangelo than I had, or who served him more faithfully in friendly offices; nor do
I believe that a single man could exhibit a larger number of letters written with his own hand,
or evincing greater personal affection, than I can."

This contention between Condivi and Vasari, our two contemporary authorities upon the facts
of Michelangelo's life, may not seem to be a matter of great moment for his biographer after
the lapse of four centuries. Yet the first steps in the art-career of so exceptional a genius
possess peculiar interest. It is not insignificant to ascertain, so far as now is possible,
what Michelangelo owed to his teachers. In equity, we acknowledge that Lodovico's record on
the ledger of the Ghirlandajo brothers proves their willingness to take him as a prentice,
and their payment to him of two florins in advance; but the same record does not disprove Condivi's
statement, derived from his old master's reminiscences, to the effect that Domenico Ghirlandajo
was in no way greatly serviceable to him as an instructor. The fault, in all probability, did
not lie with Ghirlandajo alone. Michelangelo, as we shall have occasions in plenty to observe,
was difficult to live with; frank in speech to the point of rudeness, ready with criticism,
incapable of governing his temper, and at no time apt to work harmoniously with fellow-craftsmen.
His extraordinary force and originality of genius made themselves felt, undoubtedly, at the
very outset of his career; and Ghirlandajo may be excused if, without being positively jealous
of the young eagle settled in his homely nest, he failed to do the utmost for this gifted and
rough-natured child of promise. Beethoven's discontent with Haydn as a teacher offers a parallel;
and sympathetic students of psychology will perceive that Ghirlandajo and Haydn were almost
superfluous in the training of phenomenal natures like Michelangelo and Beethoven.

Vasari, passing from controversy to the gossip of the studio, has sketched a pleasant picture
of the young Buonarroti in his master's employ. "The artistic and personal qualities of Michelangelo
developed so rapidly that Domenico was astounded by signs of power in him beyond the ordinary
scope of youth. He perceived, in short, that he not only surpassed the other students, of whom
Ghirlandajo had a large number under his tuition, but also that he often competed on an equality
with the master. One of the lads who worked there made a pen-drawing of some women, clothed,
from a design of Ghirlandajo. Michelangelo took up the paper, and with a broader nib corrected
the outline of a female figure, so as to bring it into perfect truth to life. Wonderful it
was to see the difference of the two styles, and to note the judgment and ability of a mere
boy, so spirited and bold, who had the courage to chastise his master's handiwork! This drawing
I now preserve as a precious relique, since it was given me by Granacci, that it might take
a place in my Book of Original Designs, together with others presented to me by Michelangelo.
In the year 1550, when I was in Rome, I Giorgio showed it to Michelangelo, who recognised it
immediately, and was pleased to see it again, observing modestly that he knew more about the
art when he was a child than now in his old age.

"It happened then that Domenico was engaged upon the great Chapel of S. Maria Novella; and
being absent one day, Michelangelo set himself to draw from nature the whole scaffolding, with
some easels and all the appurtenances of the art, and a few of the young men at work there.
When Domenico returned and saw the drawing, he exclaimed: 'This fellow knows more about it
than I do,' and remained quite stupefied by the new style and the new method of imitation,
which a boy of years so tender had received as a gift from heaven."

Both Condivi and Vasari relate that, during his apprenticeship to Ghirlandajo, Michelangelo
demonstrated his technical ability by producing perfect copies of ancient drawings, executing
the facsimile with consummate truth of line, and then dirtying the paper so as to pass it off
as the original of some old master. "His only object," adds Vasari, "was to keep the originals,
by giving copies in exchange; seeing that he admired them as specimens of art, and sought to
surpass them by his own handling; and in doing this he acquired great renown." We may pause
to doubt whether at the present time--in the case, for instance, of Shelley letters or Rossetti
drawings--clever forgeries would be accepted as so virtuous and laudable. But it ought to be
remembered that a Florentine workshop at that period contained masses of accumulated designs,
all of which were more or less the common property of the painting firm. No single specimen
possessed a high market value. It was, in fact, only when art began to expire in Italy, when
Vasari published his extensive necrology and formed his famous collection of drawings, that
property in a sketch became a topic for moral casuistry.

Of Michelangelo's own work at this early period we possess probably nothing except a rough
scrawl on the plaster of a wall at Settignano. Even this does not exist in its original state.
The Satyr which is still shown there may, according to Mr. Heath Wilson's suggestion, be a
rifacimento from the master's hand at a subsequent period of his career.

V

Condivi and Vasari differ considerably in their accounts of Michelangelo's departure from Ghirlandajo's
workshop. The former writes as follows: "So then the boy, now drawing one thing and now another,
without fixed place or steady line of study, happened one day to be taken by Granacci into
the garden of the Medici at San Marco, which garden the magnificent Lorenzo, father of Pope
Leo, and a man of the first intellectual distinction, had adorned with antique statues and
other reliques of plastic art. When Michelangelo saw these things and felt their beauty, he
no longer frequented Domenico's shop, nor did he go elsewhere, but, judging the Medicean gardens
to be the best school, spent all his time and faculties in working there." Vasari reports that
it was Lorenzo's wish to raise the art of sculpture in Florence to the same level as that of
painting; and for this reason he placed Bertoldo, a pupil and follower of Donatello, over his
collections, with a special commission to aid and instruct the young men who used them. With
the same intention of forming an academy or school of art, Lorenzo went to Ghirlandajo, and
begged him to select from his pupils those whom he considered the most promising. Ghirlandajo
accordingly drafted off Francesco Granacci and Michelangelo Buonarroti. Since Michelangelo
had been formally articled by his father to Ghirlandajo in 1488, he can hardly have left that
master in 1489 as unceremoniously as Condivi asserts. Therefore we may, I think, assume that
Vasari upon this point has preserved the genuine tradition.

Having first studied the art of design and learned to work in colours under the supervision
of Ghirlandajo, Michelangelo now had his native genius directed to sculpture. He began with
the rudiments of stone-hewing, blocking out marbles designed for the Library of San Lorenzo,
and acquiring that practical skill in the manipulation of the chisel which he exercised all
through his life. Condivi and Vasari agree in relating that a copy he made for his own amusement
from an antique Faun first brought him into favourable notice with Lorenzo. The boy had begged
a piece of refuse marble, and carved a grinning mask, which he was polishing when the Medici
passed by. The great man stopped to examine the work, and recognised its merit. At the same
time he observed with characteristic geniality: "Oh, you have made this Faun quite old, and
yet have left him all his teeth! Do you not know that men of that great age are always wanting
in one or two?" Michelangelo took the hint, and knocked a tooth out from the upper jaw. When
Lorenzo saw how cleverly he had performed the task, he resolved to provide for the boy's future
and to take him into his own household. So, having heard whose son he was, "Go," he said, "and
tell your father that I wish to speak with him."

A mask of a grinning Faun may still be seen in the sculpture-gallery of the Bargello at Florence,
and the marble is traditionally assigned to Michelangelo. It does not exactly correspond to
the account given by Condivi and Vasari; for the mouth shows only two large tusk-like teeth,
with the tip of the tongue protruding between them. Still, there is no reason to feel certain
that we may not have here Michelangelo's first extant work in marble.

"Michelangelo accordingly went home, and delivered the message of the Magnificent. His father,
guessing probably what he was wanted for, could only be persuaded by the urgent prayers of
Granacci and other friends to obey the summons. Indeed, he complained loudly that Lorenzo wanted
to lead his son astray, abiding firmly by the principle that he would never permit a son of
his to be a stonecutter. Vainly did Granacci explain the difference between a sculptor and
a stone-cutter: all his arguments seemed thrown away. Nevertheless, when Lodovico appeared
before the Magnificent, and was asked if he would consent to give his son up to the great man's
guardianship, he did not know how to refuse. 'In faith,' he added, 'not Michelangelo alone,
but all of us, with our lives and all our abilities, are at the pleasure of your Magnificence!'
When Lorenzo asked what he desired as a favour to himself, he answered: 'I have never practised
any art or trade, but have lived thus far upon my modest income, attending to the little property
in land which has come down from my ancestors; and it has been my care not only to preserve
these estates, but to increase them so far as I was able by my industry.' The Magnificent then
added: 'Well, look about, and see if there be anything in Florence which will suit you. Make
use of me, for I will do the utmost that I can for you.' It so happened that a place in the
Customs, which could only be filled by a Florentine citizen, fell vacant shortly afterwards.
Upon this Lodovico returned to the Magnificent, and begged for it in these words: 'Lorenzo,
I am good for nothing but reading and writing. Now, the mate of Marco Pucci in the Customs
having died, I should like to enter into this office, feeling myself able to fulfil its duties
decently.' The Magnificent laid his hand upon his shoulder, and said with a smile: 'You will
always be a poor man;' for he expected him to ask for something far more valuable. Then he
added: 'If you care to be the mate of Marco, you can take the post, until such time as a better
becomes vacant.' It was worth eight crowns the month, a little more or a little less." A document
is extant which shows that Lodovico continued to fill this office at the Customs till 1494,
when the heirs of Lorenzo were exiled; for in the year 1512, after the Medici returned to Florence,
he applied to Giuliano, Duke of Nemours, to be reinstated in the same.

If it is true, as Vasari asserts, that Michelangelo quitted Ghirlandajo in 1489, and if Condivi
is right in saying that he only lived in the Casa Medici for about two years before the death
of Lorenzo, April 1492, then he must have spent some twelve months working in the gardens at
San Marco before the Faun's mask called attention to his talents. His whole connection with
Lorenzo, from the spring of 1489 to the spring of 1492, lasted three years; and, since he was
born in March 1475, the space of his life covered by this patronage extended from the commencement
of his fifteenth to the commencement of his eighteenth year.

These three years were decisive for the development of his mental faculties and special artistic
genius. It is not necessary to enlarge here upon Lorenzo de' Medici's merits and demerits,
either as the ruler of Florence or as the central figure in the history of the Italian Renaissance.
These have supplied stock topics for discussion by all writers who have devoted their attention
to that period of culture. Still we must remember that Michelangelo enjoyed singular privileges
under the roof of one who was not only great as diplomatist and politician, and princely in
his patronage, but was also a man of original genius in literature, of fine taste in criticism,
and of civil urbanity in manners. The palace of the Medici formed a museum, at that period
unique, considering the number and value of its art treasures--bas-reliefs, vases, coins, engraved
stones, paintings by the best contemporary masters, statues in bronze and marble by Verocchio
and Donatello. Its library contained the costliest manuscripts, collected from all quarters
of Europe and the Levant. The guests who assembled in its halls were leaders in that intellectual
movement which was destined to spread a new type of culture far and wide over the globe. The
young sculptor sat at the same board as Marsilio Ficino, interpreter of Plato; Pico della Mirandola,
the phoenix of Oriental erudition; Angelo Poliziano, the unrivalled humanist and melodious
Italian poet; Luigi Pulci, the humorous inventor of burlesque romance--with artists, scholars,
students innumerable, all in their own departments capable of satisfying a youth's curiosity,
by explaining to him the particular virtues of books discussed, or of antique works of art
inspected. During those halcyon years, before the invasion of Charles VIII., it seemed as though
the peace of Italy might last unbroken. No one foresaw the apocalyptic vials of wrath which
were about to be poured forth upon her plains and cities through the next half-century. Rarely,
at any period of the world's history, perhaps only in Athens between the Persian and the Peloponnesian
wars, has culture, in the highest and best sense of that word, prospered more intelligently
and pacifically than it did in the Florence of Lorenzo, through the co-operation and mutual
zeal of men of eminence, inspired by common enthusiasms, and labouring in diverse though cognate
fields of study and production.

Michelangelo's position in the house was that of an honoured guest or adopted son. Lorenzo
not only allowed him five ducats a month by way of pocket-money, together with clothes befitting
his station, but he also, says Condivi, "appointed him a good room in the palace, together
with all the conveniences he desired, treating him in every respect, as also at his table,
precisely like one of his own sons. It was the custom of this household, where men of the noblest
birth and highest public rank assembled round the daily board, for the guests to take their
places next the master in the order of their arrival; those who were present at the beginning
of the meal sat, each according to his degree, next the Magnificent, not moving afterwards
for any one who might appear. So it happened that Michelangelo found himself frequently seated
above Lorenzo's children and other persons of great consequence, with whom that house continually
flourished and abounded. All these illustrious men paid him particular attention, and encouraged
him in the honourable art which he had chosen. But the chief to do so was the Magnificent himself,
who sent for him oftentimes in a day, in order that he might show him jewels, cornelians, medals,
and such-like objects of great rarity, as knowing him to be of excellent parts and judgment
in these things." It does not appear that Michelangelo had any duties to perform or services
to render. Probably his patron employed him upon some useful work of the kind suggested by
Condivi. But the main business of his life in the Casa Medici was to make himself a valiant
sculptor, who in after years should confer lustre on the city of the lily and her Medicean
masters. What he produced during this period seems to have become his own property, for two
pieces of statuary, presently to be described, remained in the possession of his family, and
now form a part of the collection in the Casa Buonarroti.

VI

