"Well, not very," answered Lily; "but you see I have such a large family that I don't know
what to call them all. What name do you like best?"

"Oh, I like almost anything--something short and sweet for such beauties. Ain't they lovely?
and are they all really yours?"

"I'm playing they are mine, and that I keep an orphan asylum. Don't you want to be a nurse?"

"Oh, if you'd let me!--but I'm too dirty."

"No matter for that. See how the darlings smile at you. I mean to ask mamma to buy them all.
See, I can get one in my muff: she goes in beautifully."

"So she does; but I like the one that's asleep best. She's awful cunning. Have they any teeth,
and real hair?"

"They are just cutting their teeth, and that's the reason I want a good nurse; they are so
troublesome. They haven't much hair, just a little bang under their caps."

"A little what?"

"Their hair is banged like mine--don't you see?--out short right across their foreheads, so
it don't come in their eyes: that is Charles the First style--so my aunt Tilly says."

"Oh, how I wish I had just one doll!"

"Haven't you one?"

"No; she's worn out. She was only rags to begin with, and now she's nothing, since Pete Smith
tossed her in the mud-puddle."

"That was just as hateful as it could be."

"Yes. I cried all night--more than I did when father died, because, you see, he never did nothing
but tell me to get out of the way, and go and earn money for him to spend in drink. But my
dolly used to love me, and I loved her, and I always had her with me at night, and I told her
stories, and played she was a queen."

"A queen! how funny!"

"I don't think so. Every ribbon I could get I dressed her in it, and once I found some beads
which looked just like the things you see at the jewellers', and I put them on her, and she
was grand; but Pete Smith took them off when he chucked her into the mud, and now she's good
for nothing."

"Little girl, what are you doing here?" suddenly said a stern voice, and Lily's acquaintance
shot like an arrow from a bow, and began plying vigorously her broom. Mrs. Douglas, too, came
up at that moment, and pricing the dolls, ordered them to be sent to her.

"Mamma," said Lily, softly, "may I have just this one?"--showing her muff, into which she had
stuffed the coveted article.

"Lily dear, you don't want any more dolls, surely."

"Yes, mamma, just this one."

"Well, take it, child, though I really think it is foolish, when you have so many."

Mrs. Douglas got into her carriage again, and Lily jumped in too. The little sweeper looked
wistfully after them; but the snow was becoming more and more in the way of pedestrians, and
she had to work hard to clear the crossing.

A few days after this the Fair was opened, and Mrs. Douglas, at Lily's request, placed the
basket of dolls, which now were glittering in pink and blue gauze, in the very centre of her
table. Every day Lily went with her mother to the Fair, but never without the one doll, her
mother's latest gift, in her arms. Out of all her stock of clothing she had dressed it in the
very prettiest little frock she could find, and wrapped it in a merino cloak. It was noticed
that whenever she was in the street she seemed to be looking for some one, and every time the
carriage went down town Lily insisted upon going too.

One morning, to her aunt Tilly's surprise, as they rolled through the still snow-covered streets,
Lily shrieked out, "Oh, there she is! there she is! Please, Aunt Tilly, let me get out."

Her aunt being good-natured, and supposing that the child saw one of her companions, stopped
the brougham, and away Lily ran. To the aunt's horror, she saw Lily rush up to a dirty poor
little creature sweeping the crossing. Taking the doll she so faithfully carried every day
out of her arms, she put it in the little street-sweeper's ready embrace with a most affectionate
manner.

"There," she said, "I have been watching for you every day, and I have dressed this dear thing
all for you; and don't you let Pete Smith throw her in the mud-puddle."

The little sweeper gazed at her as if she were an angel of light, hardly daring to touch the
infant beauty committed to her care.

"And now," said Lily, dragging the girl up to the carriage door, for the child was abashed
and reluctant, "you shall come to the Fair, and see our other beauties: come. Please let her,
Aunt Tilly; she never has seen anything so lovely before."

How could Aunt Tilly refuse? Side by side with the velvet and furs were the poor tattered garments
of the little sweeper. Side by side were the two child faces, one so rosy and radiant, the
other so pale and care-worn; and the brougham rolled them both to the Fair.

Exultingly Lily took the child up to her mother's table, proudly pointing out all its wonderful
wealth; but when they both bent over the basket of dolls that they had played with at the shop
door that wintry morning, and both little pairs of eyes sparkled to behold the increased beauty
of their charms, they forgot everything else, and touchingly discussed the merits of each dear
doll as if they had been two little mothers in a nursery.

A passer-by said to Mrs. Douglas, as he noticed the contrast in the children's appearance,
"'One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.'"

"Yes," nodded Mrs. Douglas, in reply; and she resolved that Lily's little acquaintance should
have not only a doll, but plenty of good warm clothing, and herself for a friend.

THE POCKET BLOW-PIPE.

BY WILLIAM BLAIKIE, AUTHOR OF "HOW TO GET STRONG, AND HOW TO STAY SO."

Stand erect, with the chin turned a little up. Draw through the nose all the air you can, till
your chest is brimful. Now place in the mouth a piece of clay pipe stem, say an inch long,
and blow through it as long and hard as you can, as if you were trying to blow out a flame.

Well, what does this do? Try a few whiffs, and see. If not used to it, at first it may make
you feel dull, perhaps dizzy. But this soon wears off, and you find that a few minutes of this
lung-filling now and then through the day is working wonders. The chest seems to be actually
growing larger; and it really is, for you are stretching out every corner of it. But the heart
and stomach--indeed, about all the vital organs--feel the new pressure, and better digestion,
brisker circulation, and a warmer and very comfortable feeling over the whole body are among
the results. M----, an oil-broker in New York, says that at thirty-six he had a weak voice,
stood slouched over and inerect, was troubled with catarrh, and knew too well what it was to
have the stomach and bowels work imperfectly. Most people can not inflate the chest so as to
increase its girth over two inches. By steady practice at his little pipe, he in about a year
got so that he could inflate five whole inches. But now his chest is noticeably round and full,
and he is as straight a man as any in a dozen. His weak voice has gone; indeed, he says he
has the strongest voice of any in a choir in which he now sings. The catarrh has left, while
his stomach is simply doing nobly. The fuller veins in his hands and the swifter reaction when
he bathes tell that his circulation is also stronger and quicker than formerly, while he has
a general health and buoyancy to which he had long been a stranger. These are surely wonderful
changes in a man of his age, and in that brief time, and each change is plainly for the better.
Not only do his friends remark it, but he delights in telling all who will listen. A lady friend,
following his example, found her angular shoulders and indifferent chest fast improving in
a way most gratifying. A friend, at our suggestion--one of the fastest half-mile runners in
America, by-the-way--tried the pipe. In five weeks of faithful practice he so enlarged his
chest that when his lungs were full he could scarcely button his vest. He says that in severe
running he finds his throat and bronchial tubes do not tire as easily as before, but are tough
and equal to their work, and so help him to more sustained effort.

Though all the results of this deep breathing are not known, it can hardly fail to bring great
good to many of us in-door people, who most of the day never half fill our lungs, and at all
events it is very easy to try. Any ivory-worker will for a dime turn you a pipe of bone or
ivory an inch long, three-eighths thick, and with a hole through it a sixteenth of an inch
in diameter, with the sides fluted so that your teeth may hold it, and prevent you from swallowing
it. This, too, can be readily carried in the pocket. Try it.

VI.--ON THE TRACK.

The night passed slowly away. Just as Sol was pouring his earliest morning rays into the little
room where Walter had lain unconsciously for so many hours, the sleeper awoke, rubbed his eyes,
and called aloud for his companion, but, to his surprise, received no answer. He was astonished
to find that he had gone to bed without taking off his clothes, but he suspected nothing until
he saw that Seppi was not in the room, and at the same moment missed the belt from his waist
and the papers from his pockets. When the whole extent of the calamity flashed upon him, he
felt completely overwhelmed. A cold perspiration started to his face; he trembled in every
limb, and but for the support of the bed, would have fallen on the floor. "Merciful powers!"
he exclaimed, when he recovered his speech, "can it be possible that Seppi has robbed me and gone?"

He rushed to the door, which he found was locked. After kicking at it with great violence for
some time, he aroused the attention of André, who came up, and, after opening the door, demanded
the reason of such behavior.

"Where is Seppi?" exclaimed Walter, paying no heed to his inquiries. "Tell me instantly what
has become of him."

"How should I know?" was the rough reply. "He left the inn before daybreak."

Walter's fears were fully confirmed. He sank into a chair, and gave way to an outburst of indignation.

"Don't trouble yourself about being left alone," said André; "your friend told me last night
that he would be sure to return to-morrow, and has given me orders to let you have everything
you ask for."

"You've seen the last of him," returned the youth. "He has robbed me, and has got safe away
by this time. But I won't rest till I have hunted him down; and woe to him then!"

He rushed to the door to carry out his purpose; but André stopped him. "Oho, my fine fellow,
that's what you're up to," said he. "I see now that your friend was right when he told me that
you were not quite right in the upper story. You will please stay quietly here till to-morrow
morning, and then you can make it all right with him yourself. You sha'n't stir out of this
room till he comes back, so make up your mind for it."

With these words the fellow quietly turned on his heel and left the room, and having locked
the door, went down stairs again without paying further regard to Walter's indignant remonstrances.

There being no possibility of escape by the door, Walter ran to the window, and looking out,
saw that the window-sill was scarcely twenty feet from the ground, and that no one was visible
outside. His plans were quickly formed. Tying the sheets together, he fastened one end to the
window-frame, and lowered himself to the ground. But a new difficulty presented itself. Which
direction should he take? While he thus stood for an instant in doubt, he heard a shout from
the window overhead, and looking up, beheld André, who by this time had brought his breakfast.

"What game is this you're up to?" exclaimed the unwelcome custodian. "Stir a foot from there
till I come, and it will be the worse for you."

Paying no heed to this threat, Walter ran at the top of his speed toward the main road, and
would perhaps have made good his escape had not a broad ditch barred his way, which he was
in the act of crossing, when he slipped, and was overtaken by André, who, after a struggle,
managed to secure his charge.

"I've got you again, my boy!" said his captor, triumphantly. "You might as well have paid attention
to what I told you, for now you must march back again, and take up your quarters in the cellar,
instead of having a comfortable room. I'll warrant you'll not get away again in a hurry."

The unfortunate youth, half stunned with the events of the morning, and considerably bruised
with the fall, was overpowered by the superior strength of his pursuer, and had to resign himself
quietly to his fate. They had just got back to the inn, and were in the act of entering, when
the sound of wheels was heard; and on looking back, a post-chaise with four horses was seen
rapidly approaching the inn.

The carriage was open, and two young men reclined upon the soft cushions, while a handsome
dog lay upon the front seat, and looked up with an intelligent glance at one of the gentlemen,
who seemed to be its master.

"Let us have some refreshment," said the gentleman to André, who was somewhat taken aback by
the unexpected arrival of travellers at that early hour. "Look sharp, my man! We must be in
Paris in an hour, and have no time to lose."

Forgetting his prisoner, André hurried in to make the necessary preparations, while Walter,
pale and breathless, leaned against the side of the door.

"Mr. Seymour!" he suddenly exclaimed, on beholding one of the travellers. "Mr. Seymour! Pray
assist me."

The stranger leaped from the carriage and hastened toward the unhappy youth.

"Can I believe my eyes?--Watty!" he exclaimed--"Watty, from the Bernese Oberland! Look here,
Lafond; this is the boy that got me the young vultures from the Engelhorn, the narrative of
whose courage you admired so much. But what are you doing here, my boy? And what is the meaning
of all this distress?"

"I have been robbed of a large sum of money here, and the thief has escaped with it. I was
going in pursuit of him--"

"Don't believe a word of what he says, Sir," interrupted André, who at that moment issued from
the inn. "The poor fellow is not right in his mind. His companion told me so, and I am going
to take care of him till he comes back. He'll be here to-morrow."

"Fool!" exclaimed Mr. Seymour, angrily, "this young man is an old acquaintance of mine. Don't
you dare to lay hands on him, or you shall suffer for it! And now, Walter, tell me the whole
story as quickly as you can."

The young man related all that had happened since his arrival in Paris.

"It's a bad affair, my good fellow," said Mr. Seymour, shaking his head and shrugging his shoulders
thoughtfully. "Your companion has most likely travelled all night, and it will be hard work
to find out which way he has gone. But never mind; we must try what can be done. Come with
us to Paris, and I will get the police to make instant search for the thief. But in the first
place," he continued, turning to André, who looked on in sullen astonishment, "let us have
something to eat; and then we'll be off to Paris, where the scoundrel is most likely hiding
himself."

Mr. Seymour's companion, a pale and delicate-looking man, had listened in silence to all that
had passed, but while they were partaking of the refreshment that had been hastily prepared,
he joined in the conversation.

"My dear Seymour," said he, "I think I know a better plan to get on the track of this swindler
than if we had the help of all the policemen of Paris."

"Name it," returned his friend.

"Well, you know the St. Bernard dogs are the best in the world for following up a scent; and
as Hector is a capital specimen of the breed, I think we can not do better than set him on
the track."

"But the dog doesn't know him, so how can he trace him?"

"The fellow has perhaps left something behind him in his hurry; if so, then let Hector get
his nose to it, and I'll wager anything that he'll follow him up even if he is fifty miles off."

"That's a capital idea," assented Mr. Seymour, delighted at the prospect of serving his young
friend. "Hector knows that we're speaking about him. See how knowing he looks! Run, Walter,
and see if your precious companion has left anything behind him."

Accompanied by André, who began to perceive that Seppi had cheated him, Walter sped up stairs
to the room in which he had slept, and soon returned in triumph.

"He has left some of his clothes," exclaimed the now excited youth. "They are worthless things;
and certainly no loss to him, after getting possession of all that money."

"Not so worthless after all," signified Mr. Seymour. "Who knows but we may find this bundle
worth fifty thousand francs to you, Walter, or rather to Mr. Frieshardt? Lay it down here.
Now then, Hector, take a good sniff."

The hound jumped from the carriage, smelled the bundle all round, then looked up at his master
in an intelligent way, and gave a short deep bark.

"Hector will be on the track immediately," was the assurance given by Mr. Lafond. "Find--lost--find,
my fine fellow!" he exclaimed.

The animal thoroughly understood its master's wish, and ran round the inn with its nose close
to the ground. Suddenly it came to a stand, looked back, and gave another short bark, as if
to say, "Here!"

"Bravo, Hector!" exclaimed both the gentlemen, in delight. "Come and smell again. Good dog!"

The dog sniffed the bundle once more, and after making another detour of the inn, stood still
at the old spot.

"He has got the scent now, without a doubt," said the stranger. "Keep up your heart, young
man, and we'll get the money out of this scoundrel's clutches just as certain as you got the
birds from the Engelhorn for my friend. Jump into the carriage. Follow the dog, postilion.
Off with you!"

The pursuit continued rapidly. The sharp-scented hound never showed the least doubt or wandering.
On a few occasions it turned off into by-paths to the right or left, but always returned in
a few seconds to the main road that led to Havre.

The horses were changed two or three times, but the dog seemed as fresh as when the pursuit
commenced. It was growing late in the afternoon; but although Hector continued to hold on as
before, Mr. Lafond shook his head, and began to doubt whether they were on the right track
after all.

The two friends made a careful calculation of the time and distance, and Mr. Seymour also began
to feel rather anxious. He stopped the carriage, called the dog back, and made him smell Seppi's
bundle again, which they had taken care to bring with them. The dog gave the same short sharp
bark as before, then turned round again, and continued the journey in the old direction.

"I haven't the least doubt now," said Mr. Seymour, cheerfully. "We must be on the right track.
Go on, postilion!"

After the lapse of half an hour the dog stopped suddenly, threw its head up in the air, and
sniffed all around in evident confusion; then, after making a slight detour with anxious speed,
leaped across the ditch by the road-side. With a loud bark that seemed to express satisfaction,
the intelligent creature made for a small clump of bushes at a little distance from the road,
into which it disappeared. In the course of a minute or two the barking was renewed, but this
time in a threatening tone.

"We've got him!" exclaimed Mr. Seymour. "There's no doubt the fellow found he could get no
farther, and has taken up his quarters in the cover yonder, to make up for the sleep he lost
last night."

"Let us go over there, then," said his companion, leaping from the carriage and across the
ditch. "Hector is calling us, and is sure to be right."

Mr. Seymour leaped the ditch, followed by Walter and one of the two postilions. Guided by the
barking of the dog, they soon reached the thicket, and there found the man they were in quest
of, pinned to the earth by the sagacious animal.

"Oh, Seppi! Seppi!" exclaimed Walter, in astonishment and sorrow, "how could you be guilty
of such an act as this!"

The conscience-stricken man paled before the indignant youth.

"I will give you back everything, and beg your pardon for all I've done," whined the wretched
drover, "if you will only release me from this savage brute that has nearly been the death of me."

At the call of his master the dog quitted his hold, and Seppi handed Walter the money-belt.

Walter counted the notes and gold, and was glad to find the contents untouched. Seppi rose
to his feet meanwhile, but stood looking to the ground in shame and fear.

Walter, feeling compassion for him, begged that he might be let off; and Mr. Seymour consented.

Seppi was overjoyed at being let off so easily. He had not dared to expect that Walter would
have taken his part, and felt really thankful that his first great crime had not met with a
severe and terrible punishment. With earnestness in his tone, he thanked his former companion,
and with unaffected emotion assured him solemnly that he would never again stretch out his
hand to that which did not belong to him.

He kissed Walter's hand and moistened it with his tears, and was gone.

"Now," said Mr. Seymour, "I think we must set off toward Paris, if we are to get there to-night."

After a long journey, the travellers reached the French metropolis; and Walter repaired with
Mr. Seymour to one of the best hotels, where, in a soft and luxurious bed, he soon forgot the
toil and anxiety of the day, and slept sounder than he had ever done in his life.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE WEASEL AND THE FROGS.

"I think the weasel is a mean, wicked murderer," said Harry, as he came rushing into his mother's
room, his face flushed and his little fists clinched tight together: "My white rabbit lies
all in a little dead heap in his house, and Mike, the gardener, says the weasel has killed
him. He saw it prowling round the barn last night, and why he didn't set a trap and catch it
I don't see."

Mamma put aside her sewing, and went to comfort Harry, who began to cry bitterly for the loss
of his pet.

"Poor Bunny!" said mamma; "he should not have been left out when Mr. Weasel was around. But
we will buy another Bunny, two Bunnies, a white one and a black one, and they shall have a
nice little house in the wood-shed, where no weasel can find them."

Harry brightened up at once at the prospect of having two Bunnies, while mamma said: "Now let
us talk a little about the weasel. It is not so much to be blamed, after all, for killing Bunny,
for it was born with the instinct to catch rabbits and squirrels, rats, mice, and many other
small animals, as well as chickens and birds of all kinds. Weasels are very sly little beasts,
although if captured when very young they can be tamed, and taught to eat out of their master's
hand. If you will listen, and not cry any more, I will tell you what I saw and heard one summer
afternoon over by the pond in the meadow. You know it is a very small pond, and that afternoon
the water was so still that it looked like a glass eye in the midst of the great green meadow.
I sat down on the bank to rest, and to watch the reflection of the bushes and tall water-grasses
which overhung the pond. Suddenly the surface of the water was disturbed by a hundred circling
ripples, in the centre of which appeared a small dark spot. As I watched, these dark spots
became visible all over the pond. The sun was setting, and the beautiful summer twilight coming
on, and it was so still it seemed as if Nature and all her pretty minstrels were fast asleep.
All at once I heard a hoarse voice, which seemed at my very feet. 'Chu-lunk, chu-lunk, chu-lunk,'
it said. It must have been the chorister calling his frog chorus together for their evening
song, for in a moment a multitude of voices were answering from the long grasses, the bushes,
the water--indeed, the whole neighborhood, a moment before so quiet, was alive with little
frog people. They evidently had some cause of complaint against a very wicked person, as my
little Harry has just now, for I distinctly heard one say, 'Stole a rabbit, stole a rabbit;'
while another answered, 'I saw him do it, I saw him do it.' Then the whole chorus burst out,'We'll
pull him in, we'll pull him in.' 'Plump, plump, plump,' added one voice more revengeful than
all the rest. I sat very still, waiting to see what was to be pulled plump into the water.
I did not have long to wait, but I fancy things took a turn contrary to the one desired by
the frog people. There was a sudden rustling in the bushes, a sharp, quick sound like the springing
of a cat. The chorus was still in an instant, but the entire shore of the little pond was covered
with rushing, springing, jumping frogs. Pell-mell they tumbled over each other in headlong
race for the water, to escape their cruel enemy, which now appeared, and showed himself to
be a slender little weasel. He darted here and there among the helpless frogs, which made no
attempts to 'pull him in,' but bent their whole efforts toward self-preservation. At length,
seizing a fat frog in his mouth, the weasel turned and disappeared noiselessly among the bushes.
Peace reigned once more, but the little frog people had all jumped into the water, and not
a voice was heard protesting or uttering farther threats."

"And did the weasel get more than one poor little frog, mamma?" asked Harry.

"No, he carried off only one frog," replied mamma; "but he killed several more, which he left
lying dead in the grass. I dug a hole in the mud with a sharp stick and buried them, so that
their companions should not find them when they ventured on shore again."

"Well," said Harry, after thinking a few moments, "now I guess I'll go and bury my poor dead
rabbit."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

IN LUCK.

BY MRS. ZADEL B. GUSTAFSON.

Lily De Koven was in luck. Luck, you know, is a word which stands for that which comes to you
without your having done anything to get it for yourself; and as she had never done anything
to bring about such results, I call it the good luck of little Lily De Koven that she had been
born in a lovely home, to kind parents, and was growing up with all the most pleasant things
of life around her. She had a little maid to braid her pretty yellow hair, lace her dainty
boots, go up stairs and down stairs, or stay in her little lady's chamber dressing and making
over the dresses of Lily's family of dolls.

One day, when Lily was not very well, and was lying in bed propped up by the pillows, her maid
came in with a new doll, larger and handsomer than all the others.

Lily received the new doll calmly, for if it did not suit her she knew she could have another,
so she had no cause for excitement. She looked it over carefully, touched the spring which
made its eyes roll, drew off one of its tiny silk shoes and stockings, passed her hand over
the lace train.

"I'll keep it," said Lily; "and now you bring me the whole family."

When all her dolls, little and big--all of them had been handsome in their day, but some of
them were a little the worse for wear--were laid on the bed, she put the new one, with curling
yellow hair almost exactly like her own, on the pillow beside her, and took up the others one
by one.

"You can throw this one away," she said at last, holding out one which had a broken arm, and
was leaking sawdust at the elbow; "I don't want but twelve children, anyway."

When her maid went out, Lily looked at her new doll, touched its hair and rich costume, but
there was not any wonder in it for her; there had never been a time when she had not had as
pretty dolls as money could buy; so Lily sighed and fell asleep almost immediately. Now Lily's
maid left the disgraced doll on a chair in the kitchen, and there Mary the cook found it. It
had on a pretty muslin dress and sash, and nice embroidered underwear, just like any fashionable
young lady. It was Christmas week, and Mary had bought a doll to give to her little niece on
Christmas-day, and seeing at once what a treasure this costume would be, she took it off, did
it up as fresh as new, and made the doll she had bought look quite like a princess in it. So
the old broken-armed doll had not a rag left of its former glory. But luck sometimes comes
even to dolls.

Three days later, early in the cold morning, a little girl stood ankle-deep in the new-fallen
snow in front of the grand house where Lily De Koven with her twelve waxen children lived.

This little girl was Biddy O'Dolan, and Biddy O'Dolan was in luck on this cold morning.

She had on nothing that you would call clothes; she had on duds. She had no parents and no
home. She had some straw in a cellar, where other children who wore duds slept at night on
other bunches of straw. She was a rag-picker and an ash girl, and sometimes was very hungry,
and sometimes was beaten by other poor hungry wretches, who, because they were miserable, wanted
to hurt somebody--not knowing any better--and so beat Biddy O'Dolan because there was no one
to interfere. In spite of all these things, Biddy was sometimes merry, which I think is wonderful.

On this cold morning, in front of the wide stone steps of Lily De Koven's home, Biddy had found
an ash can, and, poking over the ashes, had found and pulled out the very broken-armed doll
which Lily had ordered to be thrown away, which Mary the cook had stripped of its fine robes,
and which had last of all been swept up and put in the ash barrel, and so had come to the lowest
possible condition of a once rich doll. Biddy held it out, and looked straight before her for
a moment, at nothing in particular, in a kind of stupefied delight; for a doll, even such a
doll as this, had never been in her little cramped, purple hands before. Then suddenly she
tucked it in her breast, drew her dingy sacque around it tight, caught up her rag bag, and
with a scared glance at the windows of Lily's fine home, she ran down the street.

Her heart beat so that it was like a little hammer striking quick blows against the breast
of the doll. Biddy had never had anything to love, and from the moment she had got this doll
hidden in her bosom she loved it, and I think she was in good luck to have found something
which could bring her this dear feeling. And as for the doll, in its proudest days it had never
been loved, and now, when forlorn and cast out, it had found a warm heart, and had come, if
it could only have known it, into the best luck of its whole life.

I should like to tell you the whole story of Biddy O'Dolan--of what she did for the doll, and
what the doll did for her; but to-day I want to call your attention to something else, and
if you will heed my wish, I will heed yours, and soon tell you the rest of Biddy's story.

The good things that come to us have a way--which you will notice if you are observant--of
seeming to connect themselves together in a circle of sweet thoughts and hopes, just as our
friends might join hands and make a ring around us.

It was so with Biddy that day. As she ran on with her doll she was constantly thinking of something
which she had hardly thought of since it had happened two years before. It was this: Biddy
had been run over by a horse and cart, and carried, much hurt, to one of the New York hospitals
for children. There she had been tenderly cared for, which was a great mystery to Biddy, and
on Christmas morning she had waked up to find beautiful fresh Christmas greens on the wall
at the foot of her little cot and around the window, and a lady standing in this window, while
a little girl held out to Biddy a bunch of flowers that smelled as sweet as a whole summer garden.

Biddy had not understood the meaning of these things; she had only wearily noticed that the
little girl was pretty, and not at all like her, and that the flowers and greens were "jolly."
That day, when she fled with her doll, she thought of the hospital; and though she did not
understand any better than before why there should be such great difference in the lives of
little children, she for the first time felt that the lady and her little girl had been kind,
had been sorry for her. So you see that even after so long a time as a whole year, a little
seed of kindness may sprout in the heart; and don't you think, dear children of New York, you
who have every day the good luck of health, happy homes, and pleasant things, that it would
be delightful to bring just one taste of such luck to the little ones in the New York hospitals?
Would you not like to blessedly surprise them on next Christmas morning? You know the best
hospital in the world can not be like home with father and mother in it. But if you want to
make the hospitals seem almost like home to the little children for a whole happy day, you
can not begin too soon to look over all your little treasures, and choose all you can part
with. You all have cast-off toys, story-books that have been read through, and boxes full of
odds and ends, and it takes very little to brighten the face of a poor sick child lying alone
in a hospital cot. A single pretty picture-card will do it. Then, too, you can save your pennies
and dimes, so that before Christmas comes you can go into the stores and buy some of the books
and playthings that children like best; and all of you who can must tie on your warm hoods
and scamper away into the woods after the lovely prince's-pine and scarlet berries. All the
pretty things you can gather to make bright the place where these other children stay will
make your own Christmas one of the merriest you ever knew, for when you are pulling out the
"goodies" from your plump bunchy stockings at home, you will like to think of so many other
little eyes and hands and hearts brimful of the Christmas happiness which you have made.

Our young correspondents ask us for so many things that it would be impossible to gratify them
all at once. Their requests are carefully filed, however, and will not be forgotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hattie V., Cincinnati, writes:

     I have a little brother eight years old, who has a great wish to
     learn to play the violin. The other night he said to papa, "I wish
     I was a king." "Why?" asked papa. "Because a king has so much
     money, I would choose a man who had plenty of sense to rule, while
     I played the fiddle." Papa gets Harper's Young People for him,
     and is going to have it bound.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minnie B., of Wisconsin, says:

     I am a constant reader of Young People, especially the
     "Post-Office." I think that game called "Wiggles" is splendid fun,
     for I like to draw.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is from Lilian, of Louisville:

     My papa gets Harper's Young People for us, and we like it very
     much. My mamma longed for something nice for us to read, and she
     thinks this is the very thing. She says it is healthful reading for
     her three little girls, and she is as glad to welcome it for us as
     the Bazar for herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

