OUR ARTISTS IN ITALY.

HIRAM POWERS.

Antique Art, beside affording a standard by which the modern may be measured, has the remarkable
property-giving it a higher value--of testing the genuineness of the Art-impulse.

Even to genius, that is, to the artist, a true Art-life is difficult of attainment. In the
midst of illumination, there is the mystery: the subjective mystery, out of which issue the
germs--like seeds floated from unknown shores--of his imaginings; the objective mystery, which
yields to him, through obvious, yet unexplained harmonies, the means of manifestation.

Behind the consciousness is the power; behind the power, that which gives it worth and occupation.

To the artist definite foresight is denied. His life is full of surprises at new necessities.
When the present demand shall have been fulfilled, what shall follow? Shall it be Madonna,
or Laocoön? His errand is like that of the commander who bears sealed instructions; and he
may drift for years, ere he knows wherefore. Thorwaldsen waited, wandering by the Tiber a thousand
days,--then in one, uttered his immortal "Night."

Not even the severest self-examination will enable one in whom the Art-impulse exists to understand
thoroughly its aim and uses; yet to approximate a clear perception of his own nature and that
of the art to which he is called is one of his first duties. What he is able to do, required
to do, and permitted to do, are questions of vital importance.

Possession of himself, of himself in the highest, will alone enable the student in Art to solve
the difficulties of his position. His habitual consciousness must be made up of the noblest
of all that has been revealed to it; otherwise those fine intuitions, akin to the ancient inspirations,
through whose aid genius is informed of its privileges, are impossible.

Therefore the foremost purpose of an artist should be to claim and take possession of self.
Somewhere within is his inheritance, and he must not be hindered of it. Other men have other
gifts,--gifts bestowed under different conditions, and subject in a great degree to choice.
Talent is not fastidious. It is an instrumentality, and its aim is optional with him who possesses
it. Genius is exquisitely fastidious, and the man whom it possesses must live its life, or no life.

In view of these considerations, the efforts of an artist to assume his true position must
be regarded with earnest interest, and importance must be attached to that which aids him in
attaining to his true plane.

Such aid may be, and is, derived from the influences of Italy. Of those agencies which have
a direct influence upon the action of the artist, which serve to assist him in manifesting
his idea and fulfilling his purpose, mention will be made in connection with the works which
have been produced in Italian studios. They have less importance than that great element related
to the innermost of the artist's life,--to that power of which we have spoken, making Art-action
necessary.

It is not, however, exclusively antique Art which exercises this power of elevation. Ancient
Art may be a better term; as all great Art bears a like relation to the student. In Florence
the mediaeval influences predominate. Rome exercises its power through the medium of the antique.

There is much Christian Art in Rome. Yet its effect is insignificant, compared with that of
the vast collection of Greek sculptures to be found within its walls. Instinctively, as the
vague yearnings and prophecies of youth lift him in whom they quicken away from youth's ordinary
purposes and associations, his thought turns to that far city where are gathered the achievements
of those who were indeed the gods of Hellas. To be there, and to demand from those eloquent
lips the secret of the golden age, is his dream and aim, and there shall be solved the problem
of his life.

But antique Art, waiting so patiently twenty centuries to afford aid to the artist, waits also
to sit in judgment upon his worth and acts. Woe to him who cannot pass the ordeal of its power,
and explain the enigma of its speech!

Nothing can be more pitiful and sad than the condition of one who, having been subjected to
the influence of ancient Art, has not had the ability to recognize or the earnestness of purpose
essential to the apprehension of the truths which it has for his soul instead of his hands.
But if, through truthfulness of aim, and a sense of the divine nature of the errand to which
he seems appointed, he reach the law of Art, then henceforth its pursuit becomes the sign of
life; if the impulse bear him no farther than rules, then all he produces goes forth as a proclamation
of death. There is no middle path. Art is high or low: high, if it be the profoundest life
of an earnest man, uttering itself in the real, even though it be awkwardly, and in violation
of all accepted methods of expression; low, if it be not such utterance, even though consummate
in obedience to the finest rules of all Art-science. There can be no other way. The life is
in the man, and not in the stone; and no affectation of vitality can atone for the absence
of that soul which should have been breathed into existence from his own divine life.

As was said, possession of self is the only condition under which the quantity and quality
of the Art-impulse may be determined. It is only when a man stands face to face with himself,
in the stillness of his own inner world, that his possibilities become apparent; and it is
only when conscious of these, and inspired by a just sense of their dignity, that he can achieve
that which shall be genuine success. Once he must be lifted away and isolated from worldly
surroundings, relieved from all objective influences, from the pressure of all human relations;
once the very memory of all these must be blotted out; once he must be alone. This is possible
to a Mendelssohn in the awful solitude of Beethoven's "Sonate Pathétique," to a painter in
the presence of Leonardo's "Last Supper," and to a sculptor in the hushed halls of the Vatican.

But that which lifts the true artist above externals, the externals of his own individual being,
crushes the false, to whom the marble and the paint are in themselves the ultimate.

This train of thought has been suggested by the fact of the dominion which classic Art has
acquired over sculptors, and by the influence of the sixteenth and seventeenth century schools
upon painters. It is due, however, to our sculptors in Italy that credit should be given them
for having resisted the influence of forms, of the mere letter of the classic, to a greater
extent than the students of any other nation. Whether or not they have been receptive of the
spirit of the antique remains to be seen.

American painters have been less fortunate. Too often the lessons of the old masters, and especially
those of the earliest, the Puritan Fathers of Art, have been unheeded; or the rules and practices
which served them temporarily, subject to the phase of the ideal for the time uppermost, have
passed into permanent laws, to be obeyed under all conditions of Art-utterance.

The United States have had within the last twenty years as many as thirty sculptors and painters
resident in Italy. At the beginning of the present year ten sculpture studios in Rome and Florence
were occupied by Americans. We will speak of these artists in the order in which they entered
the profession of an art which they have served to develop in this first period of its history
in America. The eldest bears the honored name of Hiram Powers.

Three parties have been remarkably unjust to this man,--namely, his friends, his enemies, and
himself.

Neither the artist nor his friends need feel solicitude for his fame. The exact value of his
excellence shall be estimated, and the height of his genius fully recognized, when the right
man comes. Other award than that from an age on a level with his own life can be of small worth
to one who has attained to the true level of Art. Fame must come to him of that vision which
can pierce the external of his work and penetrate to the presence of his very soul. His action
must be traced to its finest ideal motive,--as chemist-philosophers pursue the steps of analysis
until opaque matter is resolved to pure, ethereal elements. His fame must be from such vision,
and it will approach the universal just in proportion as his pulse beats in unison with the
heart of mankind. Whatever may be an artist's plans, or those of his friends, in regard to
his valuation by the world, while he is living, ultimately he himself, divested of all save
his own individuality, must stand revealed.

Those who in other departments of action are necessarily governed somewhat, or it may be entirely,
by rules of conduct general in nature and universal in application, may fail to receive or
may escape justice. They are to a great degree involuntary agents, and subject to the laws
of science, to the operations of which they are obliged to conform. The private fact of the
man is hidden by the public general truth. If, however, the energies of the individual overtop
the science, enabling him to assert himself above the summit of its history, then is he accessible
to all generations, and can in no wise avoid or forfeit his just fame.

In Art, this intimate relation of the result of action to the actor is complete,--inasmuch
as, to be Art, to rise above being something else, the shadow and mockery of Art, it must be
of and from the man, a spontaneity, a reflection, light for light, shade for shade, color for
color, of his entire being; and with this effect his will has little to do. Therefore, unless
he be an impostor, he need give himself no trouble regarding his future. His works shall serve
as a clue, produced century after century, along which posterity shall feel its way back to
his studio and heart. No need of thought for his morrow.

But for his to-day he may well be solicitous. If fame be his reflection, he has also the shadow
of himself, his reputation.

It is a great error to assume that these two effects are so related that the augmentation of
the one must increase the other, and as great a mistake to confound the two. The truth is,
that reputation and fame are rarely coincident. They are not unfrequently in direct opposition,--so
much so, that some names, which the world cannot give up, have to be filtered through a thick
mass of years, to purify them of their reputations, and leave them simply famous.

No name has suffered more than that of Powers. His friends, blind to the laws which govern
these matters, have wrought bravely to construct for him a reputation commensurate with his
vaguely imagined worth; but upon his real worth they have evinced no desire to lay their foundation.
No accurate survey has been made of his abilities, no definite plan of his artist-nature. Often
a place has been demanded for his name in the history of Art, and the first place too, because
of his fine frank eye, or the simplicity of his manners,--because his workmen cut the chain
of the Greek slave out of one piece of stone, or the marble of the statue itself had no spot
as big as a pin-head,--because he himself chooses to rasp and scrape plaster, rather than model
in plastic clay,--because he tinkered up the "infernal regions" of the Cincinnati Museum years
ago, or spends his time now in making perforating-machines and perforated files; in fine, for
any reason rather than for the right legitimate one of artistic merit, they have demanded room
for their favorite.

Even those who look deeper than this, appreciating Mr. Powers as a gentleman, an ingenious
mechanic, and a skillful manipulator in sculpture, have been content or constrained to urge
his claims to attention upon false considerations. We have heard it gravely remarked, as a
matter of astonishment, that there were individuals--refined men, apparently--who looked upon
the Venus de' Medici as a finer work than the Greek Slave. In the files of a New York paper
may be found an article, written by a highly cultivated man, in which Powers's busts are asserted
to be rather the effect of miracles than the results of human effort. The spirit which has
prompted these and many kindred expressions cannot be too much deplored by those who love Art
and know the artist. It has succeeded in creating for him a reputation broad and remarkable,
but most unfortunate, because not his own, because not the reputation which should have formed
about his name here, as fame will yonder; unfortunate, because, though broad, it is the breadth
of an inverted pyramid, which must naturally topple over of itself, and incumber his path with
ruins.

The false position in which Mr. Powers has been placed by his friends has of course won him
many enemies.

Bold, sincere, working enemies are highly useful in developing an artist's character, especially
if he be a law-abiding follower of the art. But enemies must be dealers of fair blows, wagers
of honorable warfare; no assassin is worthy of the name of enemy. Sometimes, however, those
who are worthy of the name, and entitled to respect, may make injudicious and unfair use of
censure and invective. It is unwise, when the necessity arises to set aside a worthless or
an imperfect image, to turn Iconoclast and demolish those surrounding it which are worthy of
a place in the temple. True criticism, for its own sake, if prompted by no higher motive, deals
justly.

The friends of Mr. Powers have, in their estimate of his ability, given him credit for that
which he does not possess, and claimed recognition for merit unsupported by the value of his
works. His enemies have labored assiduously, not only to deprive the estimate of its unwarranted
quantity, but to overthrow the whole, and leave him merely a mechanic, a dexterous mechanic,
with small views, but large ambition, trying to pass himself off as an artist. His busts are
asserted to be but more elaborate examples of his skill in the "perforated-file-and-patent-punch"
line.

But as the struggles to elevate this artist's reputation above its proper level have proved
signal failures, so the effort to depreciate it must ultimately be defeated. Only one kind
of injustice ever proves irreparable wrong: that which a man exercises towards himself. Mr.
Powers had a specialty.

So constituted that the most difficult executive operations are to him but play and pleasure,
he has also, to govern and inform this rare organization, a broad, manly, and most genial human
nature. This combination decided the question of his proper mission, and in virtue of it he
has been enabled to model a series of most remarkable busts, the true excellence of which must
be recognized in spite of friends and foes, and the epithets "miraculous" and "mechanical."

It is possible that the highest type of portrait-sculpture is beyond the limit of this specialty;
indeed, it is almost impossible that with the elements constituting it there should be associated
the still rarer power to achieve the most exalted ideal Art; and such Art we believe the highest
portraiture to be.

A consummate representation of a man in his divinest development, the last refined ideal of
him then, would be indeed somewhat miraculous!

The world asks less. It claims to know of a man what the face of him became under the influences
of human, temporal relations. It wants preserved of the statesman the statesman's face, of
the merchant the merchant's face; and this demand, when governed by a cultivated taste, is
a legitimate one,--as legitimate as is the demand for any history. The public requires the
image of the man whom the public knew, and they regard as valuable that which can be received
as a definite and trustworthy statement of a great man, or of one whom it esteemed great. It
requires this, has a right to such information; and the generation which fails to demand of
its artists a true record of its prominent men fails utterly in its duty. The bust of a man
goes down to posterity, not only the history which it is in itself, but as an interpreter of
the history of its age. Were it not for Art, an age would recede into the unknown, to be recorded
as dark, or into the shadowy world of myth. Portraiture, more than aught else, serves to elucidate
the tradition or story of a people. How impossible to explain to the twentieth century the
bad mystery of our present, without the aid of Powers's head of Calhoun, the less adequate
bust of Stephen A. Douglas, and the one which should be modelled of Mr. Buchanan! A faithful
delineation of the features of some men is needful. We should be thankful for that black frown
of Nero, for the bald pate of Scipio, for those queer eyes of Marius, and for the long neck
of Cicero, as seen in the newly discovered bust. These are the signs of the men, and explain them.

Mr. Powers has succeeded in reporting more accurately than any other recent artist the physical
facts of the individual face. From one of his marbles we derive definite ideas of the human
character of its subject, what its ambition is, and what its weakness; what have been its loves
and its antipathies, its struggles and its victories, its joys and its sorrows, may be revealed
to him who has learned what the human face becomes under the influence of these incessant forces.
No mere talent can accomplish such results. Behind all that kind of strength lies the fact
of peculiar sympathies, relating the artist to this phase of Art-representation; and within
certain limits, which should have been undebatable, his rule was absolute.

The great mistake with Mr. Powers has been his oversight regarding these limits. There has
been debate, hesitation, and a continual wandering away from the duties of his errand. Years
have been devoted to those ghosts of sculpture, allegorical figures; other years wasted in
the elaboration of machinery. Not that his ideal statues are worthless, or fall short of great
beauty and exquisite delicacy; not that his skill as a mechanician is other than great. But
the age cannot afford these things, nor can the sculptor afford them. A year is too great a
sum to give for a statue of California. Better than that, the several portraits of valued men
which might have been acquired,--one bust, even, like those which surprised and compelled the
reverence of Thorwaldsen. Better the perfected ability which would have given his country the
Webster he should and might have made than a hundred "Americas."

There are two considerations which may have misled Mr. Powers. One, a pecuniary one, which
he should have disposed of as did Agassiz, when such was advanced to induce him to give lyceum
lectures:--"Sir, I cannot afford to make money!" The other may have been the weight of the
prevailing error that portrait-sculpture is a less honorable branch of Art.

Less than what? The historical? What finer history than Titian's Paul III., Raphael's Leo X.,
Albert Dürer's head of himself? What finer than the Pericles, the Marcus Aurelius of the Capitol,
the Demosthenes of the Vatican, Chantrey's Scott, Houdon's Voltaire, Powers's Jackson?--Heroic?
what more heroic than the Lateran Sophocles, the Venetian Colleoni, or Rauch's statue of Frederick
the Great?--Poetical? What picture more sweetly poetical than Raphael's head of himself in
the Uffizi, or Giotto's Dante in the Bargello? What ideal statue surpasses in poetical power
Michel Angelo's De' Medici in the San Lorenzo Chapel? What ideal head is more beautiful than
the Townley Clytie of the British Museum, or the Young Augustus of the Vatican? What grander
than Da Vinci's portrait of himself?

No,--when the sculptor has wrought the adequate representation of the individual in its best
estate, he may rest assured that he has achieved "high Art."

Let us not be unjust to Mr. Powers's ideal works. In the qualities of chasteness of conception,
delicacy of treatment, temperate grace, and that rarer, finer quality of dignified repose,
they have not been surpassed since the time of Greek Art. When the subject chosen has not been
foreign to the artist's nature, as in the "Eve," nor foreign to the Art's province, as in the
"California," his success has been very like a triumph.

But the success has not been that which he was entitled to grasp; the seeming triumph has precluded
a real victory. We must believe that the highest lessons of ancient Art have, in a great measure,
been unrecognized by Mr. Powers. The external has been studied. No man can talk more justly
of that exquisite line of the Venus de' Medici's temple and cheek, or point out more discriminatingly
the beauties of the Milo statue, or detect more quickly the truths of the antique busts. He
has discovered, also, somewhat of the great secret of repose,--has perceived that it is essential,
in some wise, to all greatness in Art, more particularly in his own department of sculpture.
But beyond that simple recognition of the fact, what? That repose is dependent on power to
act, and must be great in proportion to mightiness of power? No, he could not have seen this;
else had his Webster come to us less questionable in intent, less remote in its merits from
the massive self-possession of the man.

For what Mr. Powers became before he left America he cannot be praised too greatly. He carried
with him to Europe just that knowledge of Nature and that executive power which prepared him
to take advantage of the aid that all great Art was waiting to afford. Had he won "the large
truth," he would have found the scope and purpose of his genius, as in America he had found
that of his talent. He would have seen his specialty to be worthy of all reverence, for he
would have attained to an appreciation of the high possibilities of portrait-Art. There would
have been developed, under the influence of great principles, the power to make statues of
great men,--colossal, instead of big,--reposeful, instead of paralyzed,--grand, instead of
arrogant,--statues worthy of the hand that wrought the busts of Calhoun, Jackson, and Webster,
worthy to rank with the few mighty embodiments of power, the Sophocles, the Aristides, and
the Demosthenes. This he might have done; and this he may yet accomplish.

THE AMBER GODS.

STORY FIRST.

Flower o' the Peach.

We've some splendid old point-lace in our family, yellow and fragrant, loose-meshed. It isn't
every one has point at all; and of those who have, it isn't every one can afford to wear it.
I can. Why? Oh, because it's in character. Besides, I admire point any way,--it's so becoming;
and then, you see, this amber! Now what is in finer unison, this old point-lace, all tags and
tangle and fibrous and bewildering, and this amber, to which Heaven knows how many centuries,
maybe, with all their changes, brought perpetual particles of increase? I like yellow things,
you see.

To begin at the beginning. My name, you're aware, is Giorgione Willoughby. Queer name for a
girl! Yes; but before papa sowed his wild oats, he was one afternoon in Fiesole, looking over
Florence nestled below, when some whim took him to go into a church there, a quiet place, full
of twilight and one great picture, nobody within but a girl and her little slave,--the one
watching her mistress, the other saying dreadfully devout prayers on an amber rosary, and of
course she didn't see him, or didn't appear to. After he got there, he wondered what on earth
he came for, it was so dark and poky, and he began to feel uncomfortably,--when all of a sudden
a great ray of sunset dashed through the window, and drowned the place in the splendor of the
illumined painting. Papa adores rich colors; and he might have been satiated here, except that
such things make you want more. It was a Venus;--no, though, it couldn't have been a Venus
in a church, could it? Well, then, a Magdalen, I guess, or a Madonna, or something. I fancy
the man painted for himself, and christened for others. So, when I was born, some years afterward,
papa, gratefully remembering this dazzling little vignette of his youth, was absurd enough
to christen me Giorgione. That's how I came by my identity; but the folks all call me Yone,--a
baby name.

I'm a blonde, you know,--none of your silver-washed things. I wouldn't give a fico for a girl
with flaxen hair; she might as well be a wax doll, and have her eyes moved by a wire; besides,
they've no souls. I imagine they were remnants at our creation, and somehow scrambled together,
and managed to get up a little life among themselves; but it's good for nothing, and everybody
sees through the pretence. They're glass chips, and brittle shavings, slender pinkish scrids,--no
name for them; but just you say blonde, soft and slow and rolling,--it brings up a brilliant,
golden vitality, all manner of white and torrid magnificences, and you see me! I've watched
little bugs--gold rose-chafers--lie steeping in the sun, till every atom of them must have
been searched with the warm radiance, and have felt, that, when they reached that point, I
was just like them, golden all through,--not dyed, but created. Sunbeams like to follow me,
I think. Now, when I stand in one before this glass, infiltrated with the rich tinge, don't
I look like the spirit of it just stepped out for inspection? I seem to myself like the complete
incarnation of light, full, bounteous, overflowing, and I wonder at and adore anything so beautiful;
and the reflection grows finer and deeper while I gaze, till I dare not do so any longer. So,
without more words, I'm a golden blonde. You see me now: not too tall,--five feet four; not
slight, or I couldn't have such perfect roundings, such flexible moulding. Here's nothing of
the spiny Diana and Pallas, but Clytie or Isis speaks in such delicious curves. It don't look
like flesh and blood, does it? Can you possibly imagine it will ever change? Oh!

Now see the face,--not small, either; lips with no particular outline, but melting, and seeming
as if they would stain yours, should you touch them. No matter about the rest, except the eyes.
Do you meet such eyes often? You wouldn't open yours so, if you did. Note their color now,
before the ray goes. Yellow hazel? Not a bit of it! Some folks say topaz, but they're fools.
Nor sherry. There's a dark sardine base, but over it real seas of light, clear light; there
isn't any positive color; and once when I was angry, I caught a glimpse of them in a mirror,
and they were quite white, perfectly colorless, only luminous. I looked like a fiend, and,
you may be sure, recovered my temper directly,--easiest thing in the world, when you've motive
enough. You see the pupil is small, and that gives more expansion and force to the irides;
but sometimes in an evening, when I'm too gay, and a true damask settles in the cheek, the
pupil grows larger and crowds out the light, and under these thick, brown lashes, these yellow-hazel
eyes of yours, they are dusky and purple and deep with flashes, like pansies lit by fire-flies,
and then common folks call them black. Be sure, I've never got such eyes for nothing, any more
than this hair. That is Lucrezia Borgian, spun gold, and ought to take the world in its toils.
I always wear these thick, riotous curls round my temples and face; but the great braids behind--oh,
I'll uncoil them before my toilet is over.

Probably you felt all this before, but didn't know the secret of it. Now, the traits being
brought out, you perceive nothing wanting; the thing is perfect, and you've a reason for it.
Of course, with such an organization, I'm not nervous. Nervous! I should as soon fancy a dish
of cream nervous. I am too rich for anything of the kind, permeated utterly with a rare golden
calm. Girls always suggest little similitudes to me: there's that brunette beauty,--don't you
taste mulled wine when you see her? and thinking of yourself, did you ever feel green tea?
and find me in a crust of wild honey, the expressed essence of woods and flowers, with its
sweet satiety?--no, that's too cloying. I'm a deal more like Mendelssohn's music,--what I know
of it, for I can't distinguish tunes,--you wouldn't suspect it,--but full harmonics delight
me as they do a wild beast; and so I'm like a certain adagio in B flat, that Papa likes.

There now! you're perfectly shocked to hear me go on so about myself; but you oughtn't to be.
It isn't lawful for any one else, because praise is intrusion; but if the rose please to open
her heart to the moth, what then? You know, too, I didn't make myself; it's no virtue to be
so fair. Louise couldn't speak so of herself: first place, because it wouldn't be true; next
place, she couldn't, if it were; and lastly, she made her beauty by growing a soul in her eyes,
I suppose,--what you call good. I'm not good, of course; I wouldn't give a fig to be good.
So it's not vanity. It's on a far grander scale; a splendid selfishness,--authorized, too;
and papa and mamma brought me up to worship beauty,--and there's the fifth commandment, you know.

Dear me! you think I'm never coming to the point. Well, here's this rosary;--hand me the perfume-case
first, please. Don't you love heavy fragrances, faint with sweetness, ravishing juices of odor,
heliotropes, violets, water-lilies,--powerful attars and extracts, that snatch your soul off
your lips? Couldn't you live on rich scents, if they tried to starve you? I could, or die on
them: I don't know which would be best. There! there's the amber rosary! You needn't speak;
look at it!

Bah! is that all you've got to say? Why, observe the thing; turn it over; hold it up to the
window; count the beads,--long, oval, like some seaweed bulbs, each an amulet. See the tint;
it's very old; like clots of sunshine,--aren't they? Now bring it near; see the carving, here
corrugated, there faceted, now sculptured into hideous, tiny, heathen gods. You didn't notice
that before! How difficult it must have been, when amber is so friable! Here's one with a chessboard
on his back, and all his kings and queens and pawns slung round him. Here's another with a
torch, a flaming torch, its fire pouring out inverted. They are grotesque enough;--but this,
this is matchless: such a miniature woman, one hand grasping the round rock behind, while she
looks down into some gulf, perhaps, beneath, and will let herself fall. Oh, you should see
her with a magnifying-glass! You want to think of calm, satisfying death, a mere exhalation,
a voluntary slipping into another element? There it is for you. They are all gods and goddesses.
They are all here but one; I've lost one, the knot of all, the love of the thing. Well! wasn't
it queer for a Catholic girl to have at prayer? Don't you wonder where she got it? Ah! but
don't you wonder where I got it? I'll tell you.

Papa came in, one day, and with great mystery commenced unrolling, and unrolling, and throwing
tissue papers on the floor, and scraps of colored wool; and Lu and I ran to him,--Lu stooping
on her knees to look up, I bending over his hands to look down. It was so mysterious! I began
to suspect it was diamonds for me, but knew I never could wear them, and was dreadfully afraid
that I was going to be tempted, when slowly, bead by bead, came out this amber necklace. Lu
fairly screamed; as for me, I just drew breath after breath, without a word. Of course they
were for me;--I reached my hands for them.

"Oh, wait!" said papa. "Yone or Lu?"

"Now how absurd, papa!" I exclaimed. "Such things for Lu!"

"Why not?" asked Lu,--rather faintly now, for she knew I always carried my point.

"The idea of you in amber, Lu! It's too foreign; no sympathy between you!"

"Stop, stop!" said papa. "You shan't crowd little Lu out of them. What do you want them for, Lu?"

"To wear," quavered Lu,--"like the balls the Roman ladies carried for coolness."

"Well, then, you ought to have them. What do you want them for, Yone?"

"Oh, if Lu's going to have them, I don't want them."

"But give a reason, child."

"Why, to wear, too,--to look at,--to have and to hold for better, for worse,--to say my prayers
on," for a bright idea struck me, "to say my prayers on, like the Florence rosary." I knew
that would finish the thing.

"Like the Florence rosary?" said papa, in a sleepy voice. "Why, this is the Florence rosary."

Of course, when we knew that, we were both more crazy to obtain it.

"Oh, Sir," just fluttered Lu, "where did you get it?"

"I got it; the question is, Who's to have it?"

"I must and will, potential and imperative," I exclaimed, quite on fire. "The nonsense of the
thing! Girls with lucid eyes, like shadowy shallows in quick brooks, can wear crystallizations.
As for me, I can wear only concretions and growths; emeralds and all their cousins would be
shockingly inharmonious on me; but you know, Lu, how I use Indian spices, and scarlet and white
berries and flowers, and little hearts and notions of beautiful copal that Rose carved for
you,--and I can wear sandal-wood and ebony and pearls, and now this amber. But you, Lu, you
can wear every kind of precious stone, and you may have Aunt Willoughby's rubies that she promised
me; they are all in tone with you; but I must have this."

"I don't think you're right," said Louise, rather soberly. "You strip yourself of great advantages.
But about the rubies, I don't want anything so flaming, so you may keep them; and I don't care
at all about this. I think, Sir, on the whole, they belong to Yone for her name."

"So they do," said papa. "But not to be bought off! That's my little Lu!"

And somehow Lu, who had been holding the rosary, was sitting on papa's knee, as he half knelt
on the floor, and the rosary was in my hand. And then he produced a little kid box, and there
lay inside a star with a thread of gold for the forehead, circlets for wrist and throat, two
drops, and a ring. Oh, such beauties! You've never seen them.

"The other one shall have these. Aren't you sorry, Yone?" he said.

"Oh, no, indeed! I'd much rather have mine, though these are splendid. What are they?"

"Aqua-marina," sighed Lu, in an agony of admiration.

"Dear, dear! how did you know?"

Lu blushed, I saw,--but I was too much absorbed with the jewels to remark it.

"Oh, they are just like that ring on your hand! You don't want two rings alike," I said. "Where
did you get that ring, Lu?"

But Lu had no senses for anything beyond the casket.

If you know aqua-marina, you know something that's before every other stone in the world. Why,
it is as clear as light, white, limpid, dawn light; sparkles slightly and seldom; looks like
pure drops of water, sea-water, scooped up and falling down again; just a thought of its parent
beryl green hovers round the edges; and it grows more lucent and sweet to the centre, and there
you lose yourself in some dream of vast seas, a glory of unimagined oceans; and you say that
it was crystallized to any slow flute-like tune, each speck of it floating into file with a
musical grace, and carrying its sound with it. There! it's very fanciful, but I'm always feeling
the tune in aqua-marina, and trying to find it,--but I shouldn't know it was a tune, if I did,
I suppose. How magnificent it would be, if every atom of creation sprang up and said its one
word of abracadabra, the secret of its existence, and fell silent again. Oh, dear! you'd die,
you know; but what a pow-wow! Then, too, in aqua-marina proper, the setting is kept out of
sight, and you have the unalloyed stone with its sea-rims and its clearness and steady sweetness.
It wasn't the stone for Louise to wear; it belongs rather to highly-nervous, excitable persons;
and Lu is as calm as I, only so different! There is something more pure and simple about it
than about anything else; others may flash and twinkle, but this just glows with an unvarying
power, is planetary and strong. It wears the moods of the sea, too: once in a while a warm
amethystine mist suffuses it like a blush; sometimes a white morning fog breathes over it:
you long to get into the heart of it. That's the charm of gems, after all! You feel that they
are fashioned through dissimilar processes from yourself,--that there's a mystery about them,
mastering which would be like mastering a new life, like having the freedom of other stars.
I give them more personality than I would a great white spirit. I like amber that way, because
I know how it was made, drinking the primeval weather, resinously beading each grain of its
rare wood, and dripping with a plash to filter through and around the fallen cones below. In
some former state I must have been a fly embalmed in amber.

"Oh, Lu!" I said, "this amber's just the thing for me, such a great noon creature! And as for
you, you shall wear mamma's Mechlin and that aqua-marina; and you'll look like a mer-queen
just issuing from the wine-dark deeps and glittering with shining water-spheres."

I never let Lu wear the point at all; she'd be ridiculous in it,--so flimsy and open and unreserved;
that's for me;--Mechlin, with its whiter, closer, chaste web, suits her to a T.

I must tell you, first, how this rosary came about, any way. You know we've a million of ancestors,
and one of them, my great-grandfather, was a sea-captain, and actually did bring home cargoes
of slaves; but once he fetched to his wife a little islander, an Asian imp, six years old,
and wilder than the wind. She spoke no word of English, and was full of short shouts and screeches,
like a thing of the woods. My great-grandmother couldn't do a bit with her; she turned the
house topsy-turvy, cut the noses out of the old portraits, and chewed the jewels out of the
settings, killed the little home animals, spoiled the dinners, pranced in the garden with Madam
Willoughby's farthingale and royal stiff brocades rustling yards behind,--this atom of a shrimp,--or
balanced herself with her heels in the air over the curb of the well, scraped up the dead leaves
under one corner of the house and fired them,--a favorite occupation,--and if you left her
stirring a mess in the kitchen, you met her, perhaps, perched in the china-closet and mumbling
all manner of demoniacal prayers, twisting and writhing and screaming over a string of amber
gods that she had brought with her and always wore. When winter came and the first snow, she
was furious, perfectly mad. One might as well have had a ball of fire in the house, or chain-lightning;
every nice old custom had been invaded, the ancient quiet broken into a Bedlam of outlandish
sounds, and as Captain Willoughby was returning, his wife packed the sprite off with him,--to
cut, rip, and tear in New Holland, if she liked, but not in New England,--and rejoiced herself
that she would find that little brown skin cuddled up in her best down beds and among her lavendered
sheets no more. She had learned but two words all that time,--Willoughby, and the name of the town.

You may conjecture what heavenly peace came in when the Asian went out, but there is no one
to tell what havoc was wrought on board ship; in fact, if there could have been such a thing
as a witch, I should believe that imp sunk them, for a stray Levantine brig picked her--still
agile as a monkey--from a wreck off the Cape de Verdes and carried her into Leghorn, where
she took--will you mind, if I say?--leg-bail, and escaped from durance. What happened on her
wanderings I'm sure is of no consequence, till one night she turned up outside a Fiesolan villa,
scorched with malaria fevers and shaken to pieces with tertian and quartan and all the rest
of the agues. So, after having shaken almost to death, she decided upon getting well; all the
effervescence was gone; she chose to remain with her beads in that family, a mysterious tame
servant, faithful, jealous, indefatigable. But she never grew; at ninety she was of the height
of a yard-stick,--and nothing could have been finer than to have a dwarf in those old palaces,
you know.

In my great-grandmother's home, however, the tradition of the Asian sprite with her string
of amber gods was handed down like a legend, and, no one knowing what had been, they framed
many a wild picture of the Thing enchanting all her spirits from their beads about her, and
calling and singing and whistling up the winds with them till storm rolled round the ship,
and fierce fog and foam and drowning fell upon her capturers. But they all believed, that,
snatched from the wreck into islands of Eastern archipelagoes, the vindictive child and her
quieted gods might yet be found. Of course my father knew this, and when that night in the
church he saw the girl saying such devout prayers on an amber rosary, with a demure black slave
so tiny and so old behind her, it flashed back on him, and he would have spoken, if, just then,
the ray had not revealed the great painting, so that he forgot all about it, and when at last
he turned, they were gone. But my father had come back to America, had sat down quietly in
his elder brother's house, among the hills where I am to live, and was thought to be a sedate
young man and a good match, till a freak took him that he must go back and find that girl in
Italy. How to do it, with no clue but an amber rosary? But do it he did, stationing himself
against a pillar in that identical church and watching the worshippers, and not having long
to wait before in she came, with little Asian behind. Papa isn't in the least romantic; he
is one of those great fertilizing temperaments, golden hair and beard, and hazel eyes, if you
will. He's a splendid old fellow! It's absurd to delight in one's father,--so bread-and-buttery,--but
I can't help it. He's far stronger than I; none of the little weak Italian traits that streak
me, like water in thick, syrupy wine. No,--he isn't in the least romantic, but he says he was
fated to this step, and could no more have resisted than his heart could have refused to beat.
When he spoke to the devotee, little Asian made sundry belligerent demonstrations; but he confronted
her with the two words she had learned here, Willoughby and the town's name. The dwarf became
livid, seemed always after haunted by a dreadful fear of him, pursued him with a rancorous
hate, but could not hinder his marriage. The Willoughbys are a cruel race. Her only revenge
was to take away the amber beads, which had long before been blessed by the Pope for her young
mistress, refusing herself to accompany my mother, and declaring that neither should her charms
ever cross the water,--that all their blessing would be changed to banning, and that bane would
burn the bearer, should the salt-sea spray again dash round them. But when, in process of Nature,
the Asian died,--having become classic through her longevity, taking length of days for length
of stature,--then the rosary belonged to mamma's sister, who by-and-by sent it, with a parcel
of other things, to papa for me. So I should have had it at all events, you see;--papa is such
a tease I The other things were mamma's wedding-veil, that point there, which once was her
mother's, and some pearls.

I was born upon the sea, in a calm, far out of sight of land, under sweltering suns; so, you
know, I'm a cosmopolite, and have a right to all my fantasies. Not that they are fantasies
at all; on the contrary, they are parts of my nature, and I couldn't be what I am without them,
or have one and not have all. Some girls go picking and scraping odds and ends of ideas together,
and by the time they are thirty get quite a bundle of whims and crotchets on their backs; but
they are all at sixes and sevens, uneven and knotty like fagots, and won't lie compactly, don't
belong to them, and anybody might surprise them out of them. But for me, you see, mine are
harmonious, in my veins; I was born with them. Not that I was always what I am now. Oh, bless
your heart! plums and nectarines, and luscious things that ripen and develop all their rare
juices, were green once, and so was I. Awkward, tumble-about, near-sighted, till I was twenty,
a real raw-head-and-bloody-bones to all society; then mamma, who was never well in our diving-bell
atmosphere, was ordered to the West Indies, and papa said it was what I needed, and I went,
too,--and oh, how sea-sick! Were you ever? You forget all about who you are, and have a vague
notion of being Universal Disease. I have heard of a kind of myopy that is biliousness, and
when I reached the islands my sight was as clear as my skin; all that tropical luxuriance snatched
me to itself at once, recognized me for kith and kin; and mamma died, and I lived. We had accidents
between wind and water, enough to have made me considerate for others, Lu said; but I don't
see that I'm any less careful not to have my bones spilt in the flood than ever I was. Slang?
No,--poetry. But if your nature had such a wild, free tendency as mine, and then were boxed
up with proprieties and civilities from year's end to year's end, may-be you, too, would escape
now and then in a bit of slang.

We always had a little boy to play with, Lu and I, or rather Lu,--because, though he never
took any dislike to me, he was absurdly indifferent, while he followed Lu about with a painful
devotion. I didn't care, didn't know; and as I grew up and grew awkwarder, I was the plague
of their little lives. If Lu had been my sister instead of my orphan cousin, as mamma was perpetually
holding up to me, I should have bothered them twenty times more; but when I got larger and
began to be really distasteful to his fine artistic perception, mamma had the sense to keep
me out of his way; and he was busy at his lessons, and didn't come so much. But Lu just fitted
him then, from the time he daubed little adoring blotches of her face on every barn-door and
paling, till when his scrap-book was full of her in all fancies and conceits, and he was old
enough to go away and study Art. Then he came home occasionally, and always saw us; but I generally
contrived, on such occasions, to do some frightful thing that shocked every nerve he had, and
he avoided me instinctively as he would an electric torpedo; but--do you believe?--I never
had an idea of such a thing, till, when sailing from the South, so changed, I remembered things,
and felt intuitively how it must have been. Shortly after I went away, he visited Europe. I
had been at home a year, and now we heard he had returned; so for two years he hadn't seen
me. He had written a great deal to Lu,--brotherly letters they were,--he is so peculiar,--determining
not to give her the least intimation of what he felt, if he did feel anything, till he was
able to say all. And now he had earned for himself a certain fame, a promise of greater; his
works sold; and if he pleased, he could marry. I merely presume this might have been his thought;
he never told me. A certain fame! But that's nothing to what he will have. How can he paint
gray, faint, half-alive things now? He must abound in color,--be rich, exhaustless: wild sea-sketches,--sunrise,--sunset,--mountain
mists rolling in turbid crimson masses, breaking in a milky spray of vapor round lofty peaks,
and letting out lonely glimpses of a melancholy moon,--South American splendors,--pomps of
fruit and blossom,--all this affluence of his future life must flash from his pencils now.
Not that he will paint again directly. Do you suppose it possible that I should be given him
merely for a phase of wealth and light and color, and then taken,--taken, in some dreadful
way, to teach him the necessary and inevitable result of such extravagant luxuriance? It makes
me shiver.

It was that very noon when papa brought in the amber, that he came for the first time since
his return from Europe. He hadn't met Lu before. I ran, because I was in my morning wrapper.
Don't you see it there, that cream-colored, undyed silk, with the dear palms and ferns swimming
all over it? And all my hair was just flung into a little black net that Lu had made me; we
both had run down as we were when we heard papa. I scampered; but he saw only Lu; and grasped
her hands. Then, of course, I stopped on the baluster to look. They didn't say anything, only
seemed to be reading up for the two years in each other's eyes; but Lu dropped her kid box,
and as he stooped to pick it up, he held it, and then took out the ring, looked at her and
smiled, and put it on his own finger. The one she had always worn was no more a mystery. He
has such little hands! they don't seem made for anything but slender crayons and watercolors,
as if oils would weigh them down with the pigment; but there is a nervy strength about them
that could almost bend an ash.

Papa's breezy voice blew through the room next minute, welcoming him; and then he told Lu to
put up her jewels, and order luncheon, at which, of course, the other wanted to see the jewels
nearer; and I couldn't stand that, but slipped down and walked right in, lifting my amber,
and saying, "Oh, but this is what you must look at!"

He turned, somewhat slowly, with such a lovely indifference, and let his eyes idly drop on
me. He didn't look at the amber at all; he didn't look at me; I seemed to fill his gaze without
any action from him, for he stood quiet and passive; my voice, too, seemed to wrap him in a
dream,--only an instant; though then I had reached him.

"You've not forgotten Yone," said papa, "who went persimmon and came apricot?"

"I've not forgotten Yone," answered he, as if half asleep. "But who is this?"

"Who is this?" echoed papa. "Why, this is my great West Indian magnolia, my Cleopatra in light
colors, my"----

"Hush, you silly man!"

"This is she," putting his hands on my shoulders,--"Miss Giorgione Willoughby."

By this time he had found his manners.

"Miss Giorgione Willoughby," he said, with a cool bow, "I never knew you."

"Very well, Sir," I retorted. "Now you and my father have settled the question, know my amber!"
and lifting it again, it got caught in that curl.

I have good right to love my hair. What was there to do, when it snarled in deeper every minute,
but for him to help me? and then, at the friction of our hands, the beads gave out slightly
their pungent smell that breathes all through the Arabian Nights, you know; and the perfumed
curls were brushing softly over his fingers, and I a little vexed and flushed as the blind
blew back and let in the sunshine and a roistering wind;--why, it was all a pretty scene, to
be felt then and remembered afterward. Lu, I believe, saw at that instant how it would be,
and moved away to do as papa had asked; but no thought of it came to me.

"Well, if you can't clear the tangle," I said, "you can see the beads."

But while with delight he examined their curious fretting, he yet saw me.

I am used to admiration now, certainly; it is my food; without it I should die of inanition;
but do you suppose I care any more for those who give it to me than a Chinese idol does for--whoever
swings incense before it? Are you devoted to your butcher and milkman? We desire only the unpossessed
or unattainable, "something afar from the sphere of our sorrow." But, though unconsciously,
I may have been piqued by this manner of his. It was new; not a word, not a glance; I believed
it was carelessness, and resolved--merely for the sake of conquering, I fancied, too--to change
all that. By-and-by the beads dropped out of the curl, as if they had been possessed of mischief
and had held there of themselves. He caught them.

"Here, Circe," he said.

That was the time I was so angry; for, at the second, he meant all it comprehended. He saw,
I suppose, for he added at once,--

"Or what was the name of the Witch of Atlas,

  'The magic circle of whose voice and eyes
  All savage natures did imparadise?'"

I wonder what made me think him mocking me. Frequently since then he has called me by that name.

"I don't know much about geography," I said. "Besides, these didn't come from there. Little
Asian--the imp of my name, you remember--owned them."

"Ah?" with the utmost apathy; and turning to my father, "I saw the painting that enslaved you,
Sir," he said.

"Yes, yes," said papa, gleefully. "And then why didn't you make me a copy?"

"Why?" Here he glanced round the room, as if he weren't thinking at all of the matter in hand.
"The coloring is more than one can describe, though faded. But I don't think you would like
it so much now. Moreover, Sir, I cannot make copies."

I stepped towards them, quite forgetful of my pride. "Can't?" I exclaimed. "Oh, how splendid!
Because then no other man comes between you and Nature; your ideal hangs before you, and special
glimpses open and shut on you, glimpses which copyists never obtain."

"I don't think you are right," he said, coldly, his hands loosely crossed behind him, leaning
on the corner of the mantel, and looking unconcernedly out of the window.

Wasn't it provoking? I remembered myself,--and remembered, too, that I never had made a real
exertion to procure anything, and it wasn't worth while to begin then, beside not being my
forte; things must come to me. Just then Lu reentered, and one of the servants brought a tray,
and we had lunch. Then our visitor rose to go.

"No, no," said papa. "Stay the day out with the girls. It's Mayday, and there are to be fireworks
on the other bank to-night."

"Fireworks for Mayday?"

"Yes, to be sure. Wait and see."

"It would be so pleasant!" pleaded Lu.

"And a band, I forgot to mention. I have an engagement myself, so you'll excuse me; but the
girls will do the honors, and I shall meet you at dinner."

So it was arranged. Papa went out. I curled up on a lounge,--for Lu wouldn't have liked to
be left, if I had liked to leave her,--and soon, when he sat down by her quite across the room,
I half shut my eyes and pretended to sleep. He began to turn over her work-basket, taking up
her thimble, snipping at the thread with her scissors: I see now he wasn't thinking about it,
and was trying to recover what he considered a proper state of feeling, but I fancied he was
very gentle and tender, though I couldn't hear what they said, and I never took the trouble
to listen in my life. In about five minutes I was tired of this playing 'possum, and took my
observations.

What is your idea of a Louise? Mine is dark eyes, dark hair, decided features, pale, brown
pale, with a mole on the left cheek,--and that's Louise. Nothing striking, but pure and clear,
and growing always better.

For him,--he's not one of those cliff-like men against whom you are blown as a feather, I don't
fancy that kind; I can stand of myself, rule myself. He isn't small, though; no, he's tall
enough, but all his frame is delicate, held to earth by nothing but the cords of a strong will,
--very little body, very much soul. He, too, is pale, and has dark eyes with violet darks in
them. You don't call him beautiful in the least, but you don't know him. I call him beauty
itself, and I know him thoroughly. A stranger might have thought, when I spoke of those copals
Rose carved, that Rose was some girl. But though he has a feminine sensibility, like Correggio
or Schubert, nobody could call him womanish. "Les races se féminisent." Don't you remember
Matthew Roydon's Astrophill?

I always think of that flame in an alabaster vase, when I see him; "one sweet grace fed still
with one sweet mind"; a countenance of another sphere: that's Vaughan Rose. It provokes me
that I can't paint him myself, without other folk's words; but you see there's no natural image
of him in me, and so I can't throw it strongly on any canvas. As for his manners, you've seen
them;--now tell me, was there ever anything so winning when he pleases, and always a most gracious
courtesy in his air, even when saying an insufferably uncivil thing? He has an art, a science,
of putting the unpleasant out of his sight, ignoring or looking over it, which sometimes gives
him an absent way; and that is because he so delights in beauty; he seems to have woven a mist
over his face then, and to be shut in on his own inner loveliness; and many a woman thinks
he is perfectly devoted, when, very like, he is swinging over some lonely Spanish sierra beneath
the stars, or buried in noonday Brazilian forests, half stifled with the fancied breath of
every gorgeous blossom of the zone. Till this time, it had been the perfection of form rather
than tint that had enthralled him; he had come home with severe ideas, too severe; he needed
me, you see.

But while looking at him and Lu, on that day, I didn't perceive half of this, only felt annoyed
at their behavior, and let them feel that I was noticing them. There's nothing worse than that;
it is a very upas-breath, it puts on the brakes, and of course a chill and a restraint overcame
them till Mr. Dudley was announced.

"Dear! dear!" I exclaimed, getting upon my feet. "What ever shall we do, Lu? I'm not dressed
for him." And while I stood, Mr. Dudley came in.

Mr. Dudley didn't seem to mind whether I was dressed in cobweb or sheet-iron; for he directed
his looks and conversation so much to Lu, that Rose came and sat on a stool before me and began
to talk.

"Miss Willoughby"--

"Yone, please."

"But you are not Yone."

"Well, just as you choose. You were going to say?"

"Merely to ask how you liked the Islands."

"Oh, well enough."

"No more?" he said. "They wouldn't have broken your spell so, if that had been all. Do you
know I actually believe in enchantments now?"

I was indignant, but amused in spite of myself.

"Well," he continued, "why don't you say it? How impertinent am I? You won't? Why don't you
laugh, then?"

"Dear me!" I replied. "You are so much on the 'subtle-souled-psychologist' line, that there's
no need of my speaking at all."

"I can carry on all the dialogue? Then let me say how you liked the Islands."

"I shall do no such thing. I liked the West Indies because there is life there; because the
air is a firmament of balm, and you grow in it like a flower in the sun; because the fierce
heat and panting winds wake and kindle all latent color, and fertilize every germ of delight
that might sleep here forever. That's why I liked them; and you knew it just as well before
as now."

"Yes; but I wanted to see if you knew it. So you think there is life there in that dead Atlantis."

"Life of the elements, rain, hail, fire, and snow."

"Snow thrice bolted by the northern blast, I fancy, by which time it becomes rather misty.
Exaggerated snow."

"Everything there is an exaggeration. Coming here from England is like stepping out of a fog
into an almost exhausted receiver; but you've no idea what light is, till you've been in those
inland hills. You think a blue sky the perfection of bliss? When you see a white sky, a dome
of colorless crystal, with purple swells of mountain heaving round you, and a wilderness of
golden greens royally languid below, while stretches of a scarlet blaze, enough to ruin a weak
constitution, flaunt from the rank vines that lace every thicket, and the whole world, and
you with it, seems breaking into blossom,--why, then you know what light is and can do. The
very wind there by day is bright, now faint, now stinging, and makes a low, wiry music through
the loose sprays, as if they were tense harp-strings. Nothing startles; all is like a grand
composition utterly wrought out. What a blessing it is that the blacks have been imported there,--their
swarthiness is in such consonance!"

"No; the native race was in better consonance. You are so enthusiastic, it is pity you ever
came away."

"Not at all. I didn't know anything about it till I came back."

"But a mere animal or vegetable life is not much. What was ever done in the tropics?"

"Almost all the world's history,--wasn't it?"

"No, indeed; only the first, most trifling, and barbarian movements."

"At all events, you are full of blessedness in those climates, and that is the end and aim
of all action; and if Nature will do it for you, there is no need of your interference. It
is much better to be than to do;--one is a strife, the other is possession."

"You mean being as the complete attainment? There is only one Being, then. All the rest of
us are"----

"Oh, dear me! that sounds like metaphysics! Don't!"

"So you see, you are not full of blessedness there."

"You ought to have been born in Abelard's time,--you've such a disputatious spirit. That's
I don't know how many times you have contradicted me to-day."

"Pardon."

"I wonder if you are so easy with all women."

"I don't know many."

"I shall watch to see if you contradict Lu this way."

"I don't need. How absorbed she is! Mr. Dudley is 'interesting'?"

"I don't know. No. But then, Lu is a good girl, and he's her minister,--a Delphic oracle. She
thinks the sun and moon set somewhere round Mr. Dudley. Oh! I mean to show him my amber."

And I tossed it into Lu's lap, saying,--

"Show it to Mr. Dudley, Lu,--and ask him if it isn't divine!"

Of course, he was shocked, and wouldn't go into ecstasies at all; tripped on the adjective.

"There are gods enough in it to be divine," said Rose, taking it from Lu's hand and bringing
it back to me. "All those very Gnostic deities who assisted at Creation. You are not afraid
that the imprisoned things work their spells upon you? The oracle declares it suits your cousin
best," he added, in a lower tone.

"All the oaf knows!" I responded. "I wish you'd admire it, Mr. Dudley. Mr. Rose don't like
amber,--handles it like nettles."

"No," said Rose, "I don't like amber."

"He prefers aqua-marina," I continued. "Lu, produce yours!" For she had not heard him.

"Yes," said Mr. Dudley, rubbing his finger over his lip while he gazed, "every one must prefer
aqua-marina."

"Nonsense! It's no better than glass. I'd as soon wear a set of window-panes. There's no expression
in it. It isn't alive, like real gems."

Mr. Dudley stared. Rose laughed.

"What a vindication of amber!" he said.

He was standing now, leaning against the mantel, just as he was before lunch. Lu looked at
him and smiled.

"Yone is exultant, because we both wanted the beads," she said. "I like amber as much as she."

"Nothing near so much, Lu!"

"Why didn't you have them, then?" asked Rose, quickly.

"Oh, they belonged to Yone; and uncle gave me these, which I like better. Amber is warm, and
smells of the earth; but this is cool and dewy, and"----

"Smells of heaven?" asked I, significantly.

Mr. Dudley began to fidget, for he saw no chance of finishing his exposition.

"As I was saying, Miss Louisa," he began, in a different key.

I took my beads and wound them round my wrist. "You haven't as much eye for color as a poppy-bee,"
I exclaimed, in a corresponding key, and looking up at Rose.

"Unjust. I was thinking then how entirely they suited you."

"Thank you. Vastly complimentary from one who 'don't like amber'!"

"Nevertheless, you think so."

"Yes and no. Why don't you like it?"

"You mustn't ask me for my reasons. It is not merely disagreeable, but hateful."

"And you've been beside me, like a Christian, all this time, and I had it!"

"The perfume is acrid; I associate it with the lower jaw of St. Basil the Great, styled a present
of immense value, you remember,--being hard, heavy, shining like gold, the teeth yet in it,
and with a smell more delightful than amber,"--making a mock shudder at the word.

"Oh, it is prejudice, then."

"Not in the least. It is antipathy. Besides, the thing is unnatural; there is no existent cause
for it. A bit that turns up on certain sands,--here at home, for aught I know, as often as
anywhere."

"Which means Nazareth. We must teach you, Sir, that there are some things at home as rare as
those abroad."

"I am taught," he said, very low, and without looking up.

"Just tell me, what is amber?"

"Fossil gum."

"Can you say those words and not like it? Don't it bring to you a magnificent picture of the
pristine world,--great seas and other skies,--a world of accentuated crises, that sloughed
off age after age, and rose fresher from each plunge? Don't you see, or long to see, that mysterious
magic tree out of whose pores oozed this fine solidified sunshine? What leaf did it have? what
blossom? what great wind shivered its branches? Was it a giant on a lonely coast, or thick
low growth blistered in ravines and dells? That's the witchery of amber,--that it has no cause,--that
all the world grew to produce it,--may-be died and gave no other sign,--that its tree, which
must have been beautiful, dropped all its fruits; and how bursting with juice must they have
been"----

"Unfortunately, coniferous."

"Be quiet. Stripped itself of all its lush luxuriance, and left for a vestige only this little
fester of its gashes."

"No, again," he once more interrupted. "I have seen remnants of the wood and bark in a museum."

"Or has it hidden and compressed all its secret here?" I continued, obliviously. "What if in
some piece of amber an accidental seed were sealed, we found, and planted, and brought back
the lost aeons? What a glorious world that must have been, where even the gum was so precious!"

"In a picture, yes. Necessary for this. But, my dear Miss Willoughby, you convince me that
the Amber Witch founded your family," he said, having listened with an amused face. "Loveliest
amber that ever the sorrowing sea-birds have wept," he hummed. "There! isn't that kind of stuff
enough to make a man detest it?"

"Yes."

"And you are quite as bad in another way."

"Oh!"

"Just because, when we hold it in our hands, we hold also that furious epoch where rioted all
monsters and poisons,--where death fecundated and life destroyed,--where superabundance demanded
such existences, no souls, but fiercest animal fire;--just for that I hate it."

"Why, then, is it fitted for me?"

He laughed again, but replied,--"The hues harmonize,--the substances; you both are accidents;
it suits your beauty."

So, then, it seemed I had beauty, after all.

"You mean that it harmonizes with me, because I am a symbol of its period. If there had been
women then, they would have been like me,--a great creature without a soul, a"----

"Pray, don't finish the sentence. I can imagine that there is something rich and voluptuous
and sating about amber, its color, and its lustre, and its scent; but for others, not for me.
Yea, you have beauty, after all," turning suddenly, and withering me with his eye,--"beauty,
after all, as you didn't say just now.--Mr. Willoughby is in the garden. I must go before he
comes in, or he'll make me stay. There are some to whom you can't say, No."

He stopped a minute, and now, without looking,--indeed, he looked everywhere but at me, while
we talked,--made a bow as if just seating me from a waltz, and, with his eyes and his smile
on Louise all the way down the room, went out. Did you ever know such insolence?

NEMOPHILY

An earnest plea was once entered in Maga's pages for the bodies of saints. Yet it is to be
hoped that others not included in that respectable class may have physical needs also, and
it is to be feared that they may not be above the necessity of a little of the same invigorating
tonic. For there are not a few on this continent of ours, whom the Avvocata del Diavolo would
certainly expect to enter a nolo contendere, who stand in much need of a healthy animalism.
That these sinners would be benefited by what Mr. Kingsley's critics call "muscular Christianity"
cannot be denied. For they are not sinners beyond all hope of amendment, by any means; and
their offences being rather against the laws and light of Nature than against any of the commands
of the Decalogue, it is earnestly desired that they be brought within the pale of promise,
even if they never reach the sacred fane of canonization.

Indeed, at the outset, let there be a protest entered on behalf of the sinner against this
unnecessary pity of the saint. It is a part of that false halo with which enthusiastic admiration
(reckless of gilding and ruinously prodigal of ochre) delights to endue the favored heads of
the beati. The saint himself countenances the folly, and meekly inclines his head (sideways)
to the rays. It is a part of the capital of the calling to look interesting. The revered and
reverend Charles Honeyman, in the hands of that acute manager, Mr. Sherrick, was bidden to
sit in his pew at evening service and cough. A qualified consumption and a moderate bronchitis
are no bad substitutes for eloquence, learning, and that indiscreet piety which is so careless
of feminine favor as to bring into the pulpit a robust person and to the dinner-table a healthy
appetite.

But the saint, if he have a reasonable sense of his pastoral duty, gets, malgré lui, a very
fair share of that open-air medicine which is supposed to be the great lack of his profession.
For if he be a clergyman in a rural parish of tolerable extent and with no great superfluity
of wealth, he will not want for either air or exercise. The George Herbert so situated finds
by no means his whole round of duty in the study. Old Mrs. Smith, sick and bedridden, lives
a couple of miles from the parsonage; but the thoughtless creature actually expects a weekly
visit and half-hour's reading of certain old familiar English literature, and will remind her
pastor of it, if the expected day pass without his coming. Jones and his wife, who live in
just the other direction, are wantonly apt, upon the insufficient plea of a long walk, to be
missed from their wonted pew on a stormy Sunday, and must be looked up. Little Mary Gray has
not been to Sunday-school. Cause suspected,--insufficient shoes. Bessy Bell, up the cross-road,
quite over beyond Beman's Farms, is likewise delinquent, from the opposite want of a bonnet.
Wilson, the cross-grained vestryman, has an idea, which never fails by Saturday night to break
out into a positive rush of conviction, that the minister is neglecting his studies and "going
to Rome," if he doesn't in the course of the week go to Wilson and carry him the Church papers
and take a look at the Wilson prize-pigs. So good Mr. Herbert never fails, in due attestation
of his "abhorrence of the Bishop of Rome and his detestable enormities," to foot it over the
rocky hill and down across the rickety little bridge and past the poor-house farm, (where he
stops on a little private business of his own, that perhaps makes a few old hearts and certainly
one old coat-pocket the lighter,) and so on, a good piece, through the woods, to where Vestryman
Wilson is bending over the hoe or swinging the axe, and thinking the while what an easy life
the parson has of it.

Then Mr. Herbert gets the occasional tonic of a brisk walk over the hard-beaten snow, of a
moonlight winter's night. A walk-only think of it!--over the crisp, crunching snow, to the
distant outlying hamlet of Paton's Corner, where a few are gathered in the little school-house
to hear him preach, and to give him the happy relief of a five-mile tramp home again.

It is really doubtful if dumb-bells, a gymnasium, and a pickerel-back racing-wherry would meet
precisely the case of Mr. Herbert, however desirable for city saints who have plenty of spare
sixpences for the omnibuses.

But the miserable sinner,--"where," as the shepherd exclaimed, to Mr. Weller's indignation,
"is the miserable sinner?" Keeping school, keeping books, making books, standing behind counters
when busy and on street-corners when disengaged, doing anything or everything but taking care
of his precious body, and thereby giving his precious soul the chance of being in very bad
company, and following the fate of poor Tray, and of the well-meaning stork in Dr. Aesop's
fable. What shall he, or rather, what can he, do with his leisure? For leisure more or less
almost every young man has,--and it is of young men, and especially of the very young men,
that we are benevolently writing. If he dwell in an inland town, the boat-club is hopeless,--and
boat-clubs, though capital things for the young gentlemen of Harvard and Yale and Trinity,
have also their drawbacks. One cannot always be ready to move in complete unison with a dozen
fellow-mortals. Pendennis is never ready when the club are desirous to row; Newcome is perpetually
anxious to tempt the wave when the wave tempts nobody else. The gymnasium gets to be a wearisome
round of very mill-horse-like work, after the varieties of possible dislocation of all one's
bones have been exhausted. Climbing ropes and poles with nothing but cobwebs at the top, and
leaping horses with only tan at the bottom, grow monotonous after six months' steady dissipation
thereat. Base-ball clubs do not always find desirable commons, and the municipal fathers of
the towns have a prejudice against them in the streets. What shall youth, conscious of muscle
and eager for fresh air, do? Even the gloves are not fancy-free, but are very apt to bring
with them the slang of the ring and the beastly associations of professional pugilism. Youth
looks up to its teachers; but if its teachers in the manly art be the Game-Chicken, the Pet,
the Slasher, youth, in learning to respect the brute strength of such men, will hardly learn
to respect itself.

But--and here lies the purport of this article--there is hardly a town or village of New England
which has not within a quarter of a mile of its suburbs a patch of woodland or a strip of sandy
beach. What is to hinder the sinner, if he repent him of the foul air and cramped posture of
which he has been the victim, from a little pedestrianism? Do American men and boys ever walk?
Drive, it is known they do; they can always get time for that. But to walk, certainly to scramble
and to climb, must be added by Mr. Phillips, in the new editions of his exquisite and inexhaustible
Lecture, to the catalogue of the "Lost Arts."

Yet Nature never grows outworn,--is unwearied in the bounty which she bestows on the seeker.
I said a strip of sandy beach, just now. For that I beg leave to refer the reader to Mr. Kingsley's
fascinating "Glaucus," and to the delightful papers which appeared in "Blackwood" a year or
two ago. My business is with the woods and fields. Certainly some who read my pages will have
leisure to climb a stone wall now and then, and for them the following sketches of New England
wood-walks may serve to show how much enjoyment may be got with but little outlay of appliances.
Of course the most tempting thing to seek is sport. But the gun and the fishing-rod are useless
in many towns, from the disappearance of all worthy objects for their exercise. The birds are
wild and shy; the trout have been coculus-indicused out of the mountain-brooks to supply metropolitan
hotel-tables and Delmonican larders. Let us go after more attainable things. And first, being
a true nemophilist, I protest against botany. A flower worth a five-mile walk and a wet foot
is worthy of something better than dissection with the Linnaean classification, afterward adding
insult to injury. The botanist is not a discoverer; he is only a pedant. He finds out nothing
about the plant; he serves it as we might fancy a monster doing, who should take this number
of the "Atlantic" and sit down, not to read it, not to inhale the delicate fragrance of its
thought, but to count its articles, examine their titles, and, having compared them with the
newspaper advertisement, sweep the whole contentedly into the dust-heap. To study the plant,
to see how it gets its living, why it will grow on one side of a brook in profusion, and yet
refuse to seek the other bank, is not his care. It is simply to see whether he can abuse its
honest English or New-English simplicity by calling it by one set or another of barbarous Latin
and Greek titles. Pray, my good Sir, does a man go to see the elephant only to call him a pachydermatous
quadruped?

But we are wasting time and shall never get into the woods. In the winter wild you will hardly
get far into them, except at the Christmas season for greenery. Gathering this by deputy is
poor business. It is all very well, if you can do no better, to engage Mr. Brown to engage
some one else to bring in the needed spruce, fir, and hemlock with which to obscure the fresco
deformities of St. Boniface's; but it is far better to hunt for them yourself. There is something
intensely delightful in the changes of the search; for it begins dull enough. You start in
the drear December weather, with a gray sky and leaden clouds softly shaded in regular billows,
like an India-ink ocean, overhead, and a somewhat muddy lane before you. Then to pick one's
way across the plashy meadows, and, after a ticklish pass of jumping from one reedy tussock
to another, to get once more upon the firm soil, while the grass, dry and crisp under your
feet, gives a pleasant whish, whish, as it does the duty of street-door-mat to your mud-beclogged
sandals. Now for the stone wall. On the other side are thick set the thorny stalks of last
summer's "high-bush" blackberries. A plunge and a scramble take you through in comparative
safety; and stopping only to disengage your skirts from a too-fond bramble, you are in the
woodland. Thick-strewn the dead leaves lie under foot. What music there is in the rustling
murmur with which they greet your invading step! On, deeper and deeper into the wood,--now
dodging under the green and snaky cat-briers, with their retractile thorns and vicious clinging
grasp,--now dashing along the woodman's paths,--now struggling among the opposing underwood.
At last a little sprig of feathery green catches the eye. It is a tuft of moss. No,--it is
the running ground-pine; and clearing away, with both eager hands, leaves, sticks, moss, and
all the fallen exuciae of the summertime, you tear up long wreaths of that most graceful of
evergreens. Then, in another quarter of the woodland, where the underbrush has been killed
by the denser shade, there rise the exquisite fan-shaped plumes of the feather-pine, of deepest
green, or brown-golden with the pencil of the frost;--for cross or star or thick festoon, there
is nothing so beautiful. And again you are attracted into the thickets of laurel, and wage
fierce war upon the sturdy and tenacious, yet brittle branches, till you are transformed into
a walking jack-o'-the-green. The holly of the English Christmas, all-besprent with crimson
drops, is hard to be found in New England, and you will have to thread the courses of the brooks
to seek the swamp-loving black alder, which will furnish as brilliant a berry, but without
the beautiful thorny leaf. Only in one patch of woodland do I know of the holly. In the southeastern
corner of Massachusetts,--if you will take the trouble to follow up a railroad-track for a
couple of miles and then plunge into the pine woods, you will come upon a few lonely, stunted
scraps of it. The warmer airs which the Gulf Stream sends upon that coast have, it is said,
something to do therewith. Of course, if I am wrong, the botanists will take vengeance upon
me; but I can only say what has been said to me. We nemophilists are apt to be careless of
solemn science and go upon all sorts of uncertain tradition.

But "Christmas comes but once a year." After chancel and nave have been duly adorned, and again
disrobed against the coming sobrieties of Lent, there are other temptations to the woods. Before
the snow has wholly vanished from the shelter of the wood-lots, the warm, hazy, wooing days
of April come upon us. On such a day,--how well in this snow-season I remember it!--I have
been lured out by the hope of the Mayflower, the delicate epigae repens, miscalled the trailing
arbutus. Up the rocky hill-side, from whose top you catch glimpses of the far-off sparkling
sea, with a blue haze of island ranges belting it,--up among the rocks, into warm, sheltered,
sunny nooks, you go upon your quest. For the Mayflower, though found in almost every township
in New England, has secret and unaccountable whims of its own,--will persist in blooming in
just one spot, where you ought not to expect it, and in avoiding all likely places. Yet when
you come to its traditionary habitat, it is not there. Round and round we pace, hoping and
despairing, till a faint, most delicate odor, indescribably suggestive of woodland freshness,
catches the roused sense; or else one silvery star peeps out from under an upturned birch-leaf.
Then down on hands and knees; tear up brush to right and left, the brown skeletons of the withered
foliage. The ground is white with stars. Some are touched with delicate pink, some creamy white,--but
all breathing out the evanescent secret of the early spring. Such the children of Plymouth
used to hang in garlands about the Pilgrim stone, in honor of the never-to-be-forgotten name
of the New England Argo.

Later in the year come the beautiful blue violets, which are, I am sorry to say, scentless.
Yet their little white cousin, which delights in all swampy places, is sometimes, in the first
days of its appearing, more regardful of the prime duty of all flowers. I have gathered tufts
of them which (botanists to the contrary notwithstanding) were wellnigh as odorous as if reared
in the sunniest Warwickshire lane; but, as with a perfect specimen of the cast skin of a snake,
such a boon is to be hoped for only once in a lifetime. With the violets, the beautiful blush-bells
of the anemone come garlanded with their graceful leaves, plentifully enough. But did the rambler
ever find the sensitive fern, which resented the intrusive hand with all Mimosa's coyness?
I never did but once. I have wooed many a delicate frond of all varieties of fern since, but
never one so conscious. Now, too, ere the trees come into leaf, is the time to seek the boxwood,
called, I hope improperly, by the ominous name of the Southern dogwood. It is worth an afternoon's
ramble to come upon one of those trees, standing in an open glade of the forest, a pyramid
of white or cream-colored blossoms. Before a leaf is on the tree, it clothes itself in this
lovely livery, and at a little distance seems like a snowy cloud rather than a shrub.

But with June comes the most exquisite of our New England wild-flowers, the arethusa, or swamp-pink,
as it is often styled, to the great confusion of its delicate, high-born nature with the great,
vulgar, flaunting azalea. When June comes,--when the clethra is heaped with its bee-beloved
blossoms, and the grass is green and bright as never again in the year, then the arethusa is
to be sought. A most unaccountable flower, of all shades, from pale pink to a deep purple,
with a lovely shape that I can liken to nothing so nearly as the fleur-de-lis on French escutcheons,
it has a delicate, yet powerful, aromatic scent, as if it were an estray from the tropics.
One specimen, snowy white, I have seen, and can tell you where to find another. You are to
go out along the President's highway, due northward from a certain seaport of Massachusetts.
Take the eastward turn at the little village which lies at the head of its harbor, and so north
again by the old Friends' meeting-house, which looks in brown placidity away toward the distant
shipping and the wicked steeple-houses, into the which so many of its lost lambs have been
inveigled. Then be not tempted to strike off down yonder lane, to see the curious old farm-house,
relic of Colony times, with its odd stone chimney, its projecting upper story and carved wooden
pendants, and its shingles all pierced into decorative hearts and rounds. Its likeness is not
in Barber's book,--no, nor its visible form, I believe, (it is many a year since I went that
way,) on earth. It became a constellation long ago,--being translated to the stars. Keep on
with good heart along the highway ridge, whence you can look down on the solemn, close-set,
pine forest, which hides from you the windings of the river, and the beautiful lakelet, where
the water-lilies float in the summer. Go on down the valley, past the old tavern,--relic of
stage-coaching days, the square, three-story, deserted-looking tavern,--up again a couple of
miles or so, till the river has dwindled to a brook and then to a marsh. Here is the place
of our seeking. For under the shade of one of those huge granite rocks over which the thin
soil of ---- County is sprinkled, and which here and there have shaken off the superincumbent
dust in indignation at the presumption of man in attempting to farm them,--under that rock--of
course I shall not tell you which--you will find the White Arethusa, if you are born under
a lucky star.

A little later, the crimson lady-slipper loves to spring up in pine clearings, around the base
of the wood-piles which the cutters have stacked in the winter to season. To one born by the
salt water there is an especial forest delight in the pine woods. For that best-loved sound
of the ceaseless fall of plunging seas upon the beach comes to him there. Many a time I have
walked from Harvard's leafy shades and cheerful halls out to the quiet of the Botanic Garden
for the sake of hearing the wind in the pine tree-tops. Shut your eyes, and the inward vision
sees once more the long line of sandy and shingly beaches, the green curving-up of the surges
tipped with dazzling foam,--sees the motionless and blackened timbers of the wreck on the shore,
the white wings dipping and turning along the combing tops of the waves racing in upon the
sands,--sees the dry tufted beach-grass, and the wet, shining, compact slope down which slides
swiftly the under-tow. And what a healthful exhilaration it is to breathe the balm-laden breath
of the pine forest, and to tread the elastic slippery-soft carpet of the fallen spiny leaves!
Here is the haunt of the lady-slipper, (cypripedium,) a shy, rare flower, like a little sack
delicately veined, with a faint musky scent, and large-flapped leaves shading its flower.

In the hot July and August, the scarlet lobelia, the cardinal-flower, is to be found. Never
was cardinal so robed. For the space of a dozen or twenty yards grew a patch of absolutely
nothing but lobelia. At a little distance it was like a scarlet carpet flung out by the roadside.
If you desire to twine the threefold chord of color, as Mr. Ruskin calls it, I know of no lovelier
foil for the lobelia than the white orchis, which haunts the same marshy spots. Those long
spikes of feathery and balanced blossoms are the most absolute white of anything in Nature.
They positively insist upon the very refinement of purity, as you look at them.

Did you ever see a pond-lily?--not the miserable draggled green-and-mud-colored buds which
enterprising boys bring into the cars for sale; but the white water-lily, floating on the silent
brooks, or far out in the safe depths of the mill-ponds. The "Autocrat" knows what pond-lilies
are, having visited Prospero's Isle and seen the pink-tinged sisterhood of a certain mere that
lies embosomed in its hills. But to know them, you must hunt for them,--tramp off to the distant
stream, and then, not stand on the bank and wish and sigh, but off hose and shoon, and, careless
of water-snake and snapping-turtle, wade in up to their virgin bower, and bear off the dripping,
fragrant prize. None but the brave deserve--lady or lily.

But if the stream be too deep and wide, and the lilies are anchored far out among their broad
pads,--a floral Venice, with the blue spikes and arrowy leaves of the pickerel-weed for campaniles
and towers,--there are yet "lilies of the field" over which you may profitably meditate, remembering
that Solomon Ben-David was not so arrayed. Two kinds there are,--one like the tiger-lily of
the gardens, the petals curled back and showing the whole leopard-spotted corolla,--the other
bell-shaped, rarer, and growing one only on a stalk. Both are to be found in open spaces, bush-grown
fields, and airy, sunny spots. It is worth a hot and dusty June walk to get into one of those
nooks. You can spend days and not exhaust the study which one little triangular bit of overgrown
pasture affords,--spend them, not as a naturalist in close, patient study, because to such
a one a square yard of moss is as exhaustless as the forests of Guiana to a Waterton, but as
a nemophilist, taking simple delight in mere observation and individual discovery.

  "Many haps fall in the field
  Seldom seen by watchful eyes."

And so all sorts of curious ways are discoverable by the mere wood-lounger. At one time your
way is barred by the great portcullis of the strong threaded web of the field spider, who sits
like a porter in king's livery of black and gold at his gate. Then you have a peep into the
winding maelström-funnel of another of the spider family. Poe must have suffered metempsychosis
into the body of a blue-bottle, when he wrote his "Descent into the Maelström"; for such an
insect, hanging midway down that treacherous, sticky descent, and seeing Death creeping up
from the bottom to grasp him, might have a clear idea of what was undergone by the fisherman
of Lofoden.

Or, if one tire of the open meadows, and the sun be too hot, think of the laurel groves,--not
now, as in the Christmas-time, white with snow, but white again with thousands on thousands
of argent cups, loaded with blossoms, meeting over your head in arches of flowery tracery,
and one solitary tree standing deep in the woods, like a frigate packed with her silver canvas
lying out to windward of the fleet of merchantmen she is convoying. The cool laurel groves!
Often as one sees that sight, it is always with a fresh shock of pleasure to the frame.

Then, when autumn comes and the leaves change, there is still endless variety for the little
basket or botanical-case which swings lightly on your arm or hangs across your shoulder. Owen
Jones never devised any ornaments for wall or niche one half so brilliant as the color of those
leaves which a dexterous hand will readily group upon a sheet of white paper, where your eye
may catch it, as, after achieving a successful sentence, you look up from your study-table.
Speaking of leaves, who knows how large an oak-loaf will grow in this New England? I have just
sat down after measuring one gathered in a bit of copse hard by the town of M----, a bit of
copse which skirts a beautiful wild ravine, with a superb hemlock and pine grove creeping down
its steep bank. I have just honestly measured my leaf, and it shows fourteen inches in length
by a trifle of nine and a half in breadth.

In the same ravine I found--and in any patch of woodland you may do the like--a perfect treasury
of mosses. A shallow tin box or a wooden bowl filled with these and duly watered will give
a winter-garden to the smallest lodging. Sun and light are, as Mr. Toots says, of "no consequence"
to the moss family. But if one be above such trifles as mosses, and with Young American loftiness
aspire to full-grown trees, there is still plenty to do in the most ordinary woodlands. After
a chapter of Mr. Ruskin upon Claude and Poussin and Turner, there is nothing like going to
the original documents. In default of the National Gallery from London and the Pitti Palace
from the other side of Arno, which cannot be summoned into court at a moment's notice, we can
solve at least half the problem. Mr. Ruskin may or may not be right about the Claudes; but
it is very easy to see if he be right as to the trees. And if we prove him right with his theory
of branches and bark, we have a fair presumption that he has eyes to see the alleged falsehoods
in him of Lorraine. Now here is a chance to do a little bit of Art-criticism quite unexpensively.
Discontented young gentlemen murmur about the education of this people being too practical,
unaesthetic, and all that, and sigh for the culture which a foreign land only can give. But
a man who has no eye for Nature will hardly learn to love her at second-hand through the mediation
of canvas and colors. I should like very much to be able to walk into a Turner Gallery once
a week; but, for all that, I would not give up a Connecticut Valley sunset, such as last summer
could be had for the looking at. Not Turner, even, could paint those level shadows, all interfused
with trembling light, that filled the hollows of the hills across the river, and brought out
their wavy contour, and showed the depth and distance of the valley opening miles away. Could
he throw athwart the dark mirror of the sleeping water in the gorge, which led the imprisoned
river stealthily to the sea, the gliding snows of the sails rosy-white that stole swan-like
from behind the bluffs? Could he bring down the rainbow till its hither abutment rested on
the centre of the stream in a transparent mist of driving rain, while its keystone was lost
in the stooping cloud above? Art is good, as well as long; but time is also fleeting, and,
not being millionnaires, with the luxury of a run across the Atlantic at command, let us make
what we can out of what we have. It is very probable that architecture, too, is a sore subject
to aspiring Young America, who turns discontentedly from the stucco and pine-plank tracery
of the new cathedral of St. Aërian. But let Young America go out to the meadows, and discover
for himself a group of young elms. There is one I know of, not unattainable by very moderate
pedestrianism from the same seaport before alluded to, where a most exquisite arrangement of
arches and tracery can be seen. Six or eight elms, their long bending boughs clothed with thick,
clinging leafage, mingle their tops, forming a sort of vaulted roof, such as at the intersection
of nave and transepts occurs in every Gothic church which has no central tower. More exquisite
curves, better studies for a healthy-minded and original architect, could hardly be found.
The interlacing branches are suggestive of tracery-patterns, not to be outdone even in the
flamboyant windows of York and Rouen. There is no excuse for the squat, ugly, and stupid arches
one sees in almost every attempt at pointed architecture, when the elm-tree springs by every
riverside in the land.

But it is time to conclude our desultory rambles. It would be pleasant to me to recall many
another of my old haunts, spots which, perhaps, were never called beautiful before now, and
may not be again for many a day. For they all lie in a very tame and prosaic country, nearly
level, the utmost elevation getting hardly a couple of hundred feet above tidewater mark; a
country with less natural beauty than belongs to most New England towns,--bare, bleak, rocky,
with stunted vegetation and ungenial soil. Yet within its limits there are brooks and marshes
and copses and woodlands,--rocks over which the wild columbine hangs its fuchsia-like pendants,
and dells where nestle the earliest and sweetest of the wood-flowerets.

And now to come back to the miserable sinner. As schoolboy, as bank-clerk, as teacher, as worker
in many ways, he has unemployed leisure in the hours of daylight,--not so many as he should
have, perhaps, but still many hours in the course of the month. Shall he go to the livery-stable,
the bowling-alley, or the billiard-saloon? Not being a saint, of course he can plead no high-toned
sense of need of physical culture, to warrant these indulgences. He goes because he likes it,
gets enjoyment, exercise, rest for a mind tasked to the full with the day's work. This he ought
to have; and if butting little ivory balls about or propelling big wooden ones will give it
him, let him have it, if so be that it cannot be got otherwise. There is no contamination in
the cue or the ten-pin; but there is in the habits and associations of the places where they
are found. Let us not be maw-wormish about it, but tell the truth as it is. The quasi-gambling
principle upon which all such places are conducted stimulates the love of hazard and makes
way for the betting propensity to become full-blown. Of course, one can bet, if one have money;
two lumps of sugar and a few flies will enable a man to lose the fortune of the Rothschilds,
if he will. That is not the question. The billiard-saloons do educate men for the gambling-house,
simply because they cannot go to them without either losing their money or winning their games.
Beside that, the gaseous, dusty, confined, and tobacco-scented air of those places is not to
be compared with our free, open, out-doors hills and meadows, for any hygienic purposes.

But, argument apart, there is a sad New England story, so often repeated as to be almost wearisome,
were it not so sad. It is of the fresh, frank, honest-hearted boy, who may be seen behind many
a bank-counter. At first, so active, trustworthy, and trusted,--yet with the constant temptation
of unemployed time and energies demanding supply of action. Little by little these are supplied,--supplied
by the billiard-table and its concomitants. It is the same story,--first, rumors, then equivocation,
then exposure. Perhaps a petty sum is all; but, to the austere justice of banking, this is
as bad, nay, worse than millions. And then a brief paragraph in the newspaper, and one more
ruined young man, sulking beside the family-hearthstone, his father's shame, his mother's unextinguishable
sorrow,--a candidate for crime, if he have power of mind and spirit to feel, or an imbecile
dependant, if he have not.

Now preaching, whether lay or clerical, will not do much to prevent this, especially if it
be pitched (as it commonly is) upon too high a key. Preventing means, or used to mean, when
words had a meaning, getting beforehand with anything. And if young Homespun have from the
outset something he likes better, he will not take to the ivory balls in pleasant weather,
and in rainy weather will be apt to prefer even quite a stupid book to the board of green cloth.
Therefore, boys, go,--and girls, too, for that matter,--on flower and moss hunts!--and ye,
dear middle-aged people, send them, and go also upon the same! Find something that will tempt
you into the woods,--something neither berries nor sassafras,--something which cannot be eaten
or sold, but which will simply give you a sense and a love of beauty. These pages have been
written to show that it lies at your very doors,--that nothing but stout boots, an old coat
or jacket, and an observant eye, is needed. When you come to be saints, or even to be men,
there will be plenty of active work to do, if so be that you will only do it. Then, in careful
regard to your bodies, you may have hard-trotting (not fast-trotting) horses, pickerel-backed
boats, and a billiard-room over the stable,--if your canonization seem to require it. But the
saint, if he be true saint, needs no such care. He will get work enough, hard, physical work,
if only in trotting up and down the steep stairs of tenant-houses, to keep his digestion in
tolerable order. It is only your pseudo-saint, who cuddles himself for the pulpit and the platform,
and keeps the safety-valve down with midnight sittings while "rosining up" the furnaces with
strong coffee, that will come to grief by collapse of flues. If a man, whether sinner or saint,
will run races for the honor of being the fastest boat in the river of popular favor, he must
take the consequences.

But for the poor, benighted, heathen sinner, desiring enjoyment that shall be honest, cheap,
satisfying, and attainable, I say, in the full faith of the creed of Nemophily,--Get into the
woods! No matter what you expect to find there,--go and see what you can find. Don't walk for
"constitutionals," without an object at the end or on the way. Keep your feet well shod and
your eyes open. Bring home all the flowers and pretty wood-growths you can, and you may find
that you have been entertaining angels unawares. Find out about them all you can yourself,
and then (in spite of a previous tirade against botany, be it said) go to BIGELOW'S "PLANTS
OF BOSTON" and learn more.

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW.

A fatiguing journey up six long, winding flights of smoothly-waxed stairs carried me to the
door of the room I occupied in the Place ----. But no matter for the name of the Place; no
one, I am confident, will visit Paris for the express purpose of satisfying himself that I
am to be depended upon, and that there is a house of so many stones in the Place Maubert. Here
I lived, au premier au dessous du soleil, in the enjoyment of no end of fresh air, especially
in winter, and a brilliant prospect up and down the street and over the roofs of the houses
across the way, which reached from the Pantheon on the one side, to the peaked roofs and factory-like
chimneys of the Tuileries on the other, the dome of the Hôtel des Invalides occupying the centre
of the picture. I was studying painting at that time,--learning to paint the much-admired landscapes
and figure-pieces which I produce with so much ease now and dispose of with so little,--and,
as a general thing, was busy, (though I had my fits of abstraction, like other men of genius,
during which I did nothing but lie on my bed and smoke pipes over French novels, or join parties
of pleasure into the country or within the barriers,) through the day, and often till late
in the evening, in the atelier of one or another of the most renowned artists of the city.

At the head of the last flight of stairs in this house was a narrow passage-way in which I
was always obliged to stop and recover my breath, after finishing the one hundred and thirty-nine
steps that led to my paradise, before I could get my key into its lock; and into this passage-way
opened two doors, one of which, of course, belonged to my room, and the other to some one's
else. But who this some one else was I was unable to find out. Was it--and how convenient a
word is ça in such a case!--male or female? I was persuaded it must be a woman, and as a woman
I always used to think of her and speak of her, to myself,--and I thought and spoke of her
often enough. Of course, I could have settled the question at once by knocking at her door
and asking for a match, but I scorned resorting to such weak subterfuges. But how quiet she
was! Occasionally, when, contrary to my usual custom, I took another nap after waking in the
morning, instead of going out for exercise and a glimpse of early Paris street-life,--occasionally
I used to hear her moving about on the other side of the thin partition which separated our
rooms, as stealthily as though she feared she might disturb me. She would light her charcoal-stove,
and perhaps glide softly by my door and down stairs, to return soon with the paper of coffee,
the, bit of bread, and the egg or two which were to serve her for breakfast, and now and then
she would sing to herself, but so gently that I never could hear the words of her song, nor
scarcely the air. An evil spirit put gimlets into my head, but I shook them out like so much
powder, and resolved to be honorable, if I was an artist. I found, however, that my curiosity
was an abominable nuisance, that my morning walks were almost entirely neglected, and that
I could not bear to leave my room until I had heard her go out and lock her door behind her.
Every day, after her departure, I resolved that she should not go out again without being seen
by me, and every time I attempted to follow her in such a way as to escape detection I lost
sight of her. I nearly fell into the street as I attempted to reach far enough out of my window
to see her as she came out at the street-door.

At last, one morning, when it happened, that, just as I had finished dressing myself and was
ready to go out, she opened her door and ran down stairs without closing it behind her, carried
away by my curiosity, I stepped out into the narrow passage-way and looked into her sanctuary.
The room was a smaller one than mine,--but how much neater! The muslin curtains in her window
were as white as snow; her wardrobe, which hung against the wall, was protected from the dust
by a linen cloth; the floor shone like a mirror. Her canary hung in the window, and greeted
me with a perfect whirlwind of roulades as I stepped into the room. Her fire was burning briskly
under a pot of water, which was just coming to the boiling-point, and singing as gayly and
almost as loudly as her bird. Over the back of a chair was thrown the work she had been busied
with; and on the bed, almost hid by the curtains, was a pair of the prettiest little blue garters
I ever saw, even in Paris,--span-new they were, and had evidently been bought no longer ago
than the evening before,--and some other articles of feminine apparel, which I will not attempt
to describe. I looked into her glass, I really believe, with the hope of finding there a faint
reflection of her face and figure. She must have looked into it but a minute before going out.
A book, like a Testament, lay on the table. I knew I should find her name on the fly-leaf,
and was just on the point of satisfying myself with regard to that particular when I heard
her feet upon the stairs; and, with a start which nearly carried away the curtains of her bed,
I rushed from her room into my own.

How my heart beat, after I had gently closed my door and was sitting on the side of my bed,
listening to the movements in the next room! It didn't seem to me as though I had been guilty
of a high misdemeanor, and yet, though I had been prepared for her return, I was as much discomposed
as though I had been caught peeping.

So far from being satisfied with this resolution of my doubts with regard to the sex of my
neighbor, I now found myself more uneasy and curious than before. Was she young and pretty
and good? and what did she do? and what was her name? My thoughts were perpetually running
up those six flights and stopping baffled at her close-shut door. I drew ideal portraits of
her, and introduced them into all my pictures as pertinaciously as Rubens did his wives, and
would often finish out an accidental face in a study of rocks, much to my instructor's surprise
and my fellow-students' amusement. It was very remarkable, however, that all these fancy sketches
bore a striking resemblance to another acquaintance of mine, who will shortly be introduced,
and in whom, until I moved into my now room, I had been exclusively interested,--so much so,
in fact, that----But I will not anticipate.

Most of my days were spent on the opposite side of the Seine; and, as I crossed that river,
by the Pont Royal, at about five o'clock, every evening, on my way to the Laiterie, at which
I usually took what I called my dinner, I always stopped to buy a bunch of flowers, of violets
in their season, of a charming little flower-girl, who had her stand, on the Quai Voltaire,
and who, by the time my turn to be served came, had usually disposed of nearly her whole stock.
Every one who looked at her bought of her. She possessed something that was more attractive
even than her beauty; though I question, if, without her glossy brown hair, her soft, dark
eyes, her glorious complexion, her round, dimpled cheek and chin, her gentle winning smile,
and her exquisite taste in dress--I question, if, without all these, her quiet, modest demeanor
and unaffected simplicity and propriety would have attracted quite as much attention as they
always did.

I had not bought many bouquets of Thérèse before she began to recognize me as I came up, and
to greet me with a smile and a "Bon jour, Monsieur," sweeter in tone and accent than any I
had ever heard before. What a voice hers was! Its tones were like those of a silver bell; and
I found that she always had my bunch of violets or heliotrope ready for me by the time I reached
her.

My frugal meal over, I was in the habit of visiting a neighboring café, where I read the papers,
drank my evening cup of coffee, and, as I smoked my cigar or pipe and twirled my posies in
my fingers or held them to my nose, would wonder who she was who sold them to me, if she ever
thought of those who bought them of her, and if she distinguished me above her other customers.
It seemed to me, that, if she had the same angelic smile and happy greeting for them as she
always bestowed upon me, they must one and all be her slaves; and yet I couldn't decide whether
I really loved her or was only touched by a passing fancy for her.

I looked forward, however, through the day, to my interview with her with a great deal of impatience,
and found myself making short cuts in the long walk which led me to her. I used to arrange,
on my way, well-turned sentences with which to please her, and by which I expected to startle
her into some intimation of her feelings toward me. I was angry that she was obliged to stand
in so public a place, exposed to the gaze and remarks of all who chose to stop and buy of her.
In fine, I was jealous, or rather was piqued, that she should receive all others exactly as
she received me, and almost flattered myself that necessity forced her to meet them with the
same sweet smile inclination led her to bestow on me.

This was the state of affairs at the time I moved into my new lodgings, before referred to,
in the Place Maubert, and I was suffering these mental torments for Thérèse's sake, when the
appearance, or rather the non-appearance, of my mysterious neighbor aggravated and complicated
the symptoms and converted my slow fever into an intermittent. I had called my fair unknown
Hermine;--the pronoun she, as it applied equally to every individual of the female sex, and
in the French language to many things besides, soon became insufficient, and I took the liberty
of calling her Hermine. I was so ashamed of my foolish passion, that I could not make up my
mind even to question the porter at the door with regard to her, nor to consult any of my better
initiated acquaintances as to the proper course to be pursued, but lived out a wretched succession
of days and nights of feverish anxiety and expectation,--of what I knew not.

I was on my way over the Pont Royal, one evening, at my usual hour, and was just coming in
sight of my bewitching flower-merchant, when a sudden, and, as I believed, a happy thought
occurred to me, and I resolved to put it into instant execution. I am sure I blushed and stammered
wofully as I asked for two bunches of flowers instead of my usual one, and I was confident,
that, as she handed them to me without a word, but with such a look, Thérèse's brow was shaded
by something more than the dark bands of her brown hair or the edge of her becoming cap, and
that her lip quivered rather with a suppressed sigh than with her usual happy smile. I didn't
stop to speak with her that night, but hurried away towards my room, conscious--for I did not
dare to look behind me, or I am sure I should have relinquished my design--that her large,
sorrowful eyes were full of the tears she had kept back while I had stood before her.

I reached my room as soon as possible, and, after assuring myself that my neighbor was still
absent, carefully inserted my second nosegay into her keyhole, and rushed from the house as
though I had committed burglary.

I was very young then, very romantic, and wholly wanting in assurance. I must have been, or
I should never have regarded it as a crime, not against myself, but others, that I was making
my days miserable and my nights sleepless on account of two young girls, one of whom I had
never seen, and the other of whom was merely a flower-merchant.

When I clambered up to my room late that night, the flowers were no longer where I had put
them. I had been torturing myself all the evening with the thought that Hermine might have
felt offended, and that I should find them torn in pieces and thrown down at my door, or that
she would be waiting for me with a severe reprimand for my boldness and impertinence. But I
could find no trace of them, and went to sleep, soothed by the conviction that they had been
carefully put by in a glass of water, or were occupying a place on her pillow by the side of
her dainty cheek. I feared to meet Thérèse's sorrowful face again the next night, and was troubled
so much by the thought of it through the day, that I fairly deserted her that evening and bought
my two bouquets elsewhere. With one of these, which I had taken care should be of a finer quality
than before, I repeated my experiment of the preceding night and with the same gratifying result.
But the day after, forgetting, until it was too late, that I had given Thérèse fair cause to
be seriously angry with me, habit carried me to my old resort again, though I had fully determined
to reach home by another way, and to patronize, for the future, my new bouquetière, who was
not only old and ugly, but of the masculine gender. Habit--and perhaps wish had something to
do with it--was too strong, however, and I found myself turning down the Quai Voltaire at the
customary hour the next evening.

Much to my surprise, and somewhat to my mortification, Thérèse greeted me with her old sunny
smile. Her "Bon jour, Monsieur," was as cordial as ever; and it even seemed to me--and that
didn't in the least tend to compose me--that her eyes sparkled with an archness which I had
never seen in them before, and that her voice had in it a tinge of malice, as she held out
to me two of her finest bunches, saying,--

"Est-ce que, Monsieur en desire deux encore ce soir?"

I was very angry with her for being in such good-humor, and believe I was anything but aimable
or polite with her. Why did she not look hurt or offended and reproach me for my desertion,
instead of almost disarming my senseless anger by her gentleness?

"It seems that Monsieur forgets his old friends, sometimes," she continued, as I took the flowers
she had been holding towards me, and was fumbling in my pocket for the change.

"Forget!" I stammered; for the temper I found her in had so completely ruffled mine, that I
was hardly sufficiently master of myself to be able to answer her at all,--"what makes you
think I forget? Am I not here this evening, as usual?"

"This evening, yes,--but last night you did not come; or were you here too late to find me?
I"----she paused, and, with her color a little heightened, as though she had narrowly escaped
making a disclosure, looked another way,--"Monsieur must have bought his flowers elsewhere,
yesterday. Were they as fresh and sweet as mine?"

"But how do you know, Mademoiselle,"--I answered, after I had given her a long opportunity
to add what I had hoped would follow that long-drawn-out "I"; (she was going to say, I was
sure, that she had waited for me to come as long as was possible;)--"How do you know that I
bought my flowers elsewhere, or that I bought any? And where can I find finer ones than you
give me?"

"Monsieur is kind enough to say so," she returned. "Can you excuse my indiscretion? I only
thought, that, as you never miss carrying a bunch of flowers home with you, and sometimes two,"
she added, with a wicked twinkle in the corner of her mouth, "you must have found some better
than mine, last night. But Monsieur will, of course, act his own pleasure."

Thérèse had never appeared to me more charming than at that moment. I wondered afterwards how
I had been able to tear myself away from her, and was almost angry that I had not thrown down
my second bunch, had not vowed to her that I would never desert her again, and had not confessed
that the pain I had suffered from my folly had more than equalled hers, since I was never so
happy as when I could be near and see her and hear the music of her voice.

And this was my life, and these the pains I used to suffer. Two tender passions held alternate
possession of my fickle heart, and a constant struggle was always waging between them for the
mastery; and the impossibility of deciding in favor of either of them, which to accept and
which deny, prevented my yielding to either. Thérèse, however, whose real presence I could
enjoy, upon whose delicious beauty I could feast my eyes whenever the fancy seized me, and
whose voice I could hear, even when separated from her, possessed a fearful advantage over
her invisible rival, who maintained her position in my interest only by preserving her incognito
and maintaining my curiosity strained to the highest pitch. My acquaintance with Thérèse became
daily more intimate, and was soon upon such a footing as seemed to authorize my asking her
to accompany me on a Sunday jaunt to one of the thousand resorts of Parisian pleasure-seekers
just beyond the barriers of the city.

She accepted,--of course she did,--and the matter was finally arranged one Saturday evening
for the next day. I was to find her at the house of her aunt, who lived in my neighborhood,
and who, to my surprise, turned out to be the proprietress of the Laiterie I frequented. Here
we were to breakfast, and afterwards take the proper conveyance to our destination, which I
think was Belleville.

Sunday came, and with it came such weather as the gods seldom vouchsafe to mortals who contemplate
visiting the country. It was one of those cloudless days in early June when all Nature, and
yourself more than anything else in Nature, seems as though it had been taking Champagne,--not
too warm, but sufficiently so to make out-of-door life a luxury, and an excursion like ours
into the country almost a necessity.

Thérèse, like everything else in Nature on that summer's day, was more gloriously beautiful,
in my eyes, than ever before. Hermine's ideal beauty, and with it her chance of success, faded
out from my memory like an unfixed photograph, before this charming reality, and Thérèse ruled
supreme. She had dressed herself with a taste which surprised even me, who had so long regarded
her as irreproachable, as she was unapproachable, in that particular; and the joy she felt
at the thought of a whole day's ramble in the country showed itself in every feature of her
countenance, in every movement, and in every tone of her voice. There didn't live a prouder
or a happier man than I was, as we made our way arm in arm towards the Place Dauphine, where
we were to take the omnibus for Belleville.

We ran wild in the woods and fields all that day, we fed the fishes in the ponds, we made ourselves
dizzy on the seesaws and merry-go-rounds, and at last, fairly tired out, and feeling desperately
and most unromantically hungry, turned into the neatest and least frequented restaurant we
could find and ordered our dinner.

Thérèse was no gourmande, luckily. Her tastes were simple and harmonized admirably with my
slender means. We dined, however, like princes, and drank a bottle of Château Margeaux, instead
of the vin ordinaire, which was my ordinary wine. Thérèse's gayety had fairly inoculated me,
and, forgetting my usual reserve, we laughed and chatted as noisily as a couple of children.

"Upon my word," cried I, as I caught sight of a bouquet of flowers in the room we occupied,
"what a couple of ninnies we have been! We have forgotten to get any flowers to carry home
with us. But I suppose you see too many of them through the week to care for them to-day."

"Oh, no!" replied Thérèse. "I could never see too much of flowers; and besides, you must have
a bunch to carry home to Mademoiselle this evening. She will never forgive you, if you neglect
her to-day. And what would she think or say, if she knew where you are now and whom you are
with? She is very fond of flowers,--when they come from you, I mean."

"Well," I stammered, and my face burned like fire. "What Mademoiselle? And what makes you think
that I make presents of the flowers I get of you? I only get them for myself, and as an excuse
for seeing you."

"Ah! menteur!" cried Thérèse, shaking her finger at me with mock solemnity. "Fi donc! c'est
vilain. Do you think I have no eyes, or that you have none that speak as plainly as your mouth,
and more truly? You try to deceive me, Monsieur!" and the little hypocrite assumed so injured
and heart-broken an expression and tone, that I was almost wild with remorse, and cursed the
wretch who had placed the flowers in the room, and myself for having noticed them. I should
have been hurried into I don't know what expressions of attachment to her and of indifference
towards every other individual of her sex, if she had not prevented me by the following startling
remark.

"I know to whom you give the flowers you value so much as coming from me. It is to your next-door
neighbor, who pleases you more than I do, and whom you have known, perhaps, longer than you
have me. Why didn't you invite her, and not me, to come with you to-day? It would have been
better."

"Ah!" cried I, "do you know her? She told you about it? Why doesn't she let me see her? Is
her name Hermine?"

And almost before I knew it, I had told her the whole story of my passion for my invisible
neighbor.

Thérèse pouted, and turned her back. She put her handkerchief to her face, and called me all
sorts of hard names for having brought her there to listen to the confession of my love for
another; and turned a deaf ear, or I thought she did, to my expostulations and my protestations
that I didn't really care for Hermine,--that it was only a passing fancy, more curiosity than
anything else,--and that I really loved no one but her.

She began to relent at last, though I was half inclined to be sorry, for her resentment became
her even better than her good-humor.

"Well," she said, finally, "it is too tiresome to quarrel, and I will forgive; for, although
you say you have never seen Hermine,--(that is a prettier name than Thérèse, isn't it?)--she
has, perhaps, seen you, and may really love you "--

"But I don't love her," I cried. "I don't want to love her. I don't want to see her. Her name
isn't Hermine, I know. I will never think of her again, nor make a fool of myself by putting
nose-gays into her keyhole, if you will only not look so sober any more."

"She will be very sorry for that, I am sure," returned Thérèse, with a smile I could not translate;
"and she will miss them very much. I judge her by myself. I always find a bunch at my door
when I go home at night"--

"You! You find flowers at your door? And who puts them there?" And I took my turn at being
provoked. "You haven't used me fairly, Thérèse, to make me understand all this time that you
cared for no one but me. There is some one, then, whom you love and who loves you?"

"Oh, yes!" she answered, her whole face beaming with a pleasure which made me feel like committing
a murder or a suicide; "oh, yes! I believe he does; he has almost told me so. And--and I know
that I do. But he is so droll! He is my next-door neighbor, and has never seen me yet, and
has never tried to, I believe; but he leaves a bunch of flowers at my door every evening, and
calls me--Hermine."

"Hermine! You Hermine? Hurrah!"

And before she could prevent me, I held her in my arms, and, in spite of her struggles, had
kissed her forehead, eyes, hair, nose, and lips before she could extricate herself, and then
went round the room in a wild dance of perfect joy and relief.

"I knew I could love no one else, Thérèse-Hermine, or Hermine-Thérèse! I knew there must be
some good and sufficient reason for the unaccountable attraction my neighbor was exercising
over me. Why didn't you tell me sooner, méchante? I suppose you never would have done so at
all, if we had not come out here to-day. Suppose I had not asked you to come with me?"

"Wouldn't you have asked me?" she answered, with so much winning grace and in such a pleading
tone that I found myself obliged to repeat the operation of a few lines above. "Wouldn't you
have asked me? I don't know what I should have done," she continued, sadly and thoughtfully.
"Oh, yes!" she exclaimed, jumping up and clapping her hands, while her whole face was radiant
with triumph. "Oh, yes! then I should have been Hermine, and you would have asked her."

Two happier young people than Thérèse and myself never, I am confident, returned by rail from
a day's excursion in the country. Our happy faces, our rapid talking, and our devotion to each
other, which we took no pains to conceal, attracted the attention of all about us,--and I heard
one father of a family, who was returning to Paris with a half score of cross, tired, and crying
children, whisper to his wife, as he pointed towards us,--"That is a couple in their honey-moon,
or else lovers; how happy they are!"

And that is the way in which I stumbled into wedlock. How many others, in their pursuit of
what has seemed to them the substance, have failed to discover, perhaps too late, that they
were following a flitting shadow,--while I, favored mortal, in my chase of a dream, stumbled
upon the greatest real good of my whole life!

       *       *       *       *       *

THROUGH THE FIELDS TO SAINT PETER'S.

  There's a by-road to Saint Peter's. First you swing across the Tiber
  In a ferry-boat that floats you in a minute from the crowd;
  Then through high-hedged lanes you saunter; then by fields and sunny
    pastures;
  And beyond, the wondrous dome uprises like a golden cloud.

  And this morning,--Easter morning,--while the streets were thronged
    with people,
  And all Rome moved toward the Apostle's temple by the usual way,
  I strolled by the fields and hedges,--stopping now to view the
    landscape,
  Now to sketch the lazy cattle in the April grass that lay.

  Galaxies of buttercups and daisies ran along the meadows,--
  Rosy flushes of red clover,--blossoming shrubs and sprouting vines;
  Overhead the larks were singing, heeding not the bells a-ringing,--
  Little knew they of the Pasqua, or the proud Saint Peter's shrines.

  Contadini, men and women, in their very best apparel,
  Trooping one behind another, chatted all along the roads;
  Boys were pitching quoits and coppers; old men in the sun were basking:
  In the festive smile of Heaven all laid aside their weary loads.

  Underneath an ancient portal, soon I passed into the city;
  Entered San Pietro's Square, now thronged with upward crowding forms;
  Past the Cardinals' gilded coaches, and the gorgeous scarlet lackeys,
  And the flashing files of soldiers, and black priests in gloomy swarms.

  All were moving to the temple. Push aside the ponderous curtain!
  Lo! the glorious heights of marble, melting in the golden dome,
  Where the grand mosaic pictures, veiled in warm and misty softness,
  Swim in faith's religious trances,--high above all heights of Rome.

  Grand as Pergolesi chantings, lovely as a dream of Titian,
  Tones and tints and chastened splendors wreathed and grouped in sweet
    accord;
  While through nave and transept pealing, soar and sink the choral
    voices,
  Telling of the death and glorious resurrection of the Lord.

  But, ah, fatal degradation for this temple of the nations!
  For the soul is never lifted by the accord of sights and sound;
  But yon priest in gold and satin, murmuring with his ghostly Latin,
  Drags it from its natural flights, and trails its plumage on the ground.

  And to-day the Pope is heading his whole army of gay puppets,
  And the great machinery round us moving with an extra show:
  Genuflexions, censers, mitres, mystic motions, candle-lighters,
  And the juggling show of relics to the crowd that gapes below,

  Till at last they show the Pontiff, a lay figure stuffed and tinselled;
  Under canopy and fan-plumes he is borne in splendor proud
  To a show-box of the temple overlooking the Piazza;
  There he gives his benediction to the long-expectant crowd.

  Benediction! while the people, blighted, cursed by superstition,
  Steeped in ignorance and darkness, taxed and starved, looks up and begs
  For a little light and freedom, for a little law and justice,--
  That at least the cup so bitter it may drain not to the dregs!

  Benediction! while old error keeps alive a nameless terror!
  Benediction! while the poison at each pore is entering deep,
  And the sap is slowly withered, and the wormy fruit is gathered,
  And a vampire sucks the life out while the soul is fanned asleep!

  Oh, the splendor gluts the senses, while the spirit pines and dwindles!
  Mother Church is but a dry-nurse, singing while her infant moans;
  While anon a cake or rattle gives a little half-oblivion,
  And the sweetness and the glitter mingle with her drowsy tones.

  But the infant moans and tosses with a nameless want and anguish,
  While, with coarse, unmeaning bushings, louder sings the hireling
    nurse,--
  Knows no better, in her dull and superannuated blindness,--
  Tries no potion,--seeks no nurture,--but consents to worse and worse.

  If such be thy ultimation, Church of infinite pretension,--
  Such within thy chosen garden be the flowers and fruits you bear,--
  Oh, give me the book of Nature, open wide to every creature,
  And the unconsecrated thoughts that spring like daisies everywhere!

  Send me to the woods and waters,--to the studio,--to the market!
  Give me simple conversation, books, arts, sports, and friends sincere!
  Let no priest be e'er my tutor! on my brow no label written!
  Coin or passport to salvation, rather none, than beg it here!

  Give me air, and not a prison,--love for Heart, and light for Reason!
  Let me walk no slave or bigot,--God's untrammelled, fearless child!
  Yield me rights each soul is born to,--rights not given and not taken,--
  Free to Cardinals and Princes and Campagna shepherds wild.

  Like these Roman fountains gushing clear and sweet in open spaces,
  Where the poorest beggar stoops to drink, and none can say him nay,--
  Let the Law, the Truth, be common, free to man and child and woman,
  Living waters for the souls that now in sickness waste away!

  Therefore are these fields far sweeter than yon temple of Saint Peter;
  Through this grander dome of azure God looks down and blesses all;
  In these fields the birds sing clearer, to the Eternal Heart are nearer,
  Than the sad monastic chants that yonder on my ears did fall.

  Never smiled Christ's holy Vicar on the heretic and sinner
  As this sun--true type of Godhead--smiles o'er all the peopled land!
  Sweeter smells this blowing clover than the perfume of the censer,
  And the touch of Spring is kinder than the Pontiff's jewelled hand!

THE EXPERIENCE OF SAMUEL ABSALOM, FILIBUSTER.

[Concluded.]

Some time after the departure of the riflemen, a detail of eight or nine men from our company
was ordered off towards the lake shore, and soon afterward another smaller one to Potosí, a
little village four or five miles to the northward of Rivas, bearing orders to Captain Finney's
rangers, who had gone to scout in that direction. The rest of us ate supper, and then lay listening
for the boom of the little field-piece, which should tell us that the rifles had met the enemy.
But the extraordinary toils and watchings of the last fortnight were too overpowering, and
we were all soon buried in dreamless sleep.

In an hour or two I was awakened by horses' feet clattering over the stony pavement of the
portería, or gateway to the square courtyard, in one of whose surrounding corridors we usually
slept,--on blankets, cow-hides, or hard tiles, according as each man was able to furnish himself.
It was the party returning from their scout on the lake. They unsaddled and fed their animals
in the yard, and afterward set about frying plantains and fresh stolen pork for supper. As
they talked over their provant in the room behind me, I caught most of their adventure, without
the discomfort of rising or asking questions. Near the lake they had chased and captured some
natives, whose behavior was suspicious and showed no good-will toward the Americans. The officer
of the party, thinking them spies, had carried them part of the way to Rivas to be examined;
but, fortunately, perhaps, for the captives, he afterwards relented and set them at liberty.
They also talked of a small boy who had peeped out of the bushes as they rode by, and shouted
to them, "Quieren for Walker?" (Are you for Walker?) and then adding energetically, "Yo no
quiero filibustero god-damn!" darted away out of sight, before any one, who was so minded,
could have shot the little rebel.

"Be sure," said one of the men at supper,--a noted croaker and tried coward, against whom I
bear a private grudge,--"the boys have learned this from the old greasers; and we are going
to have all the people of Nicaragua to fight."

Later in the night, the other party, which had been sent to Potosí, came in with panting mules,
excited countenances, and one of their number stained with blood from a wound on his thigh.
They told us, that, failing to find Captain Finney at Potosí, they had stretched their orders,
and gone forward to Obraja, unaware that it was occupied by the enemy. At the entrance of the
village, whilst riding on in complete darkness, they were challenged suddenly in Spanish. Taken
by surprise, they replied in English, and, before they could turn their animals, were stunned
with the glare and crash of a musket-volley, a few feet ahead of them. They recoiled, and fled
with such precipitation that one of the riders was tossed over his horse's head;--however,
scrambling to his feet, he found sense and good-luck to remount; and the whole party made good
their flight to Rivas, with no further damage than two slight flesh-wounds,--one on the trooper,
and one on his mule.

The excitement upon this arrival soon subsided, and I had again fallen into unconsciousness,
when a rough shake of the shoulder aroused me, and the voice of the old sergeant dinned in
my ear,--"Come here! saddle up! saddle up! You are detailed for Obraja." In a few moments I
was mounted, and, with two others of the company, rode out of the gateway into the street.
There we found awaiting us a fourth horseman, charged with orders for the riflemen at Obraja,
and whom it was our duty to accompany as guard.

After clearing Rivas, we clattered over the road at a fast pace, rousing all the dogs at the
haciendas as we passed, and leaving them baying behind us, until we came to where the Potosí
road forked off to the right; thenceforward, fearing an ambush, we rode slowly and with great
caution, stopping often to dismount and reconnoitre moon-lit fields beyond the roadside hedges.
At length, after passing a picket of our riflemen, we came to a large adobe house directly
on the roadside, where we found the main body of the detachment encamped and sleeping. The
house stood something under half a mile from Obraja, and was the residence of that friendly
alcalde who on the approach of the enemy had removed with his family to Rivas, and placed General
Walker on his guard. As we rode into the yard, we had some ado to keep our horses from treading
on the sleeping soldiers, who lay scattered all round the building, and also in its open corridor
fronting toward Obraja. Dismounting here, our courier went into the house to communicate with
Colonel O'Neal, the commander of the detachment,--leaving it to us either to tie up, and lie
where we were until morning, or pass farther up the road, where Captain Finney's rangers were
stationed. I chose to go forward and hear the rangers' story, who, we were told, had had a
slight brush with the enemy in the beginning of the night.

After riding near quarter of a mile, I came to another adobe building on the roadside, occupied
by a small party, and forming Colonel O'Neal's advanced post, at the distance of four hundred
yards or more from Obraja. Here they told me that Captain Finney's company, whilst riding into
Obraja early in the night, had been hotly fired upon, and Captain Finney himself was brought
off struck in the breast, wounded mortally. The riflemen had as yet made no attack, but awaited
daylight. The number of the enemy was not known; though rumor placed it between one thousand
and fifteen hundred. Whatever it was, they were apprehensive; for throughout the night we heard
them barricading the town with great hurry and clatter; and it gave us sad discomfort to think
that in the morning there would be these walls to climb before our men could get at them. It
was the occasion of much bitter cursing that there should be delay until this was accomplished,
and of one man's protesting seriously that it was, and had been, General Walker's endeavor,
not to whip the greasers, but to get as many Americans killed in Nicaragua as possible,--he
nourishing secret and implacable hatred against them for some cause. However, I think this
judgment weak and improbable, though plausible enough from some points of view.

During the night there was some firing between our party and the enemy from under cover in
front, with some few wounds, and one man on our side shot through the hat,--who thereupon,
pulling off the injured head-piece, and looking at it gravely, declared he would always thenceforward
wear his hat with a high crown; for, said he, had this one been half an inch lower, the bullet
must have struck the head:--which drollery, in consideration of the circumstances, was allowed
to pass for an exceeding good stroke.

We passed a disturbed and rather uneasy night, fearful all the time of being cut off or overwhelmed.
But morning breaking at length, a party of riflemen came up from Colonel O'Neal's camp below,
and affairs were immediately changed for the offensive. The riflemen moved forward against
the town, whilst the rangers were posted at several points along the road to guard against
surprise from the bushes. Among these latter I took my stand. The squad which went forward
could not have numbered above sixty men, and was armed with Mississippi rifles only,--without
wheel-piece of any kind, or even bayonets. I took them for a party of skirmishers, sent ahead
to clear the way; yet they were not followed or supported by any additional force that I saw
then or afterwards.

As they passed up the road, I observed that the most listless and dead amongst them were at
length stirred up and thoroughly awake,--though not with enthusiasm or martial impatience.
Some seemed uneasy and careworn, and glanced about nervously; had their countenances not been
unalterably yellow, they would certainly have been white. One fellow near the rear was trembling
sadly, and carried his rifle in an unreasonable manner,--promising aimless discharges, and,
perhaps, dodgings into the bushes. But this one was excusable, and I may have slandered him;
for ague had shaken the life almost out of him so often that shaking was become natural, and
little else could be expected of him; and, furthermore, a pale face or unsteady joints are
not always weathercock to a fainting spirit. In some constitutions these may come from other
emotions than fear; and it often happens that your most lamentable shaker will stand you longer
at the breach than the man of iron nerve, with a white liver. I have seen such. However, the
majority of these were resolute and dangerous-looking men, and, though without any marks of
inordinate zeal, seemed willing enough to fight whatever appeared. They held their rifles in
the hand cocked, and, as they advanced, threw their eyes sharply into the bushes on either
side the road,--having received orders to shoot the first greaser that showed himself, without
awaiting the word.

In a few moments after, the party having disappeared behind a turn of the road, we suddenly
heard the cracking of their rifles, mingled with the deeper crash of more numerous musketry;
and it was a vivid sensation, new to me, that some of those bullets were surely finding billets
in the bodies of men. This seemed an encounter with a force of the enemy outside of the town;
and directly we thought, from the movement of the noise, that our riflemen were driving them
in. Then there was a louder and more rapid volleying of musketry, which completely drowned
the rifles, and seemed to tell us that our men were come in sight of the barricades. This lasted
but a moment, when it was succeeded by a scattered fire of fewer guns, and finally by irregular
volleys. We knew that our men had fallen back; and we had not once thought it would be otherwise.
Indeed, it had been a rarely preposterous enemy who should allow himself to be driven from
behind a rampart by that handful of dispirited, men.

Whilst things were on this foot, the courier of last night came up with his guard, having been
sent by Colonel O'Neal, who had remained at the alcalde's house below, to get news of the attacking
party. As I was still under his orders, I joined him, and rode forward towards the combatants,--not
without sundry misgivings, known to most men who are about to enter a fray for the first time,--or
the twentieth time, perhaps, if the truth were confessed. We found the riflemen drawn up in
the road, protected by the raised side-bank and cactus-hedge from an enemy concealed amongst
some trees and bushes, a little distance to the right of the road in front. Above the trees,
within pistol-shot, was visible the red roof of a church which stood on the plaza of Obraja,
where were barricaded, as they said, over a thousand greaser soldiers. All other sign of the
town than this one roof was shut in from view by the abundant foliage which embowered it. As
we approached the riflemen, we dismounted and led our horses, fearing to attract a shower from
the enemy, who lay in the bushes firing irregularly. The officer of the party told us to report
to Colonel O'Neal that he had advanced within sight of the plaza, and, finding it strongly
barricaded, and "swarming with greasers," he held it folly to assail it with fifty men, and
so had retreated. He mentioned some loss,--very small for the noise that had been made,--of
which I remember the name of one Lieutenant Webster, shot through the head. He charged us to
ask Colonel O'Neal's permission to fall back on the adobe where we had passed the night, as
the enemy appeared to be moving around his right, and he was fearful of being surrounded in
the open road. But, directly after, seeing the enemy were in earnest to cut him off, he concluded
to fall back on the house upon his own responsibility, and did so, and with the adobe walls
around him probably felt secure enough against such an enemy.

We returned to the lower camp, and delivered our report to a boyish-looking person, in unepauletted
red flannel shirt, but who was no other than Colonel O'Neal, the officer in command. He was
popular amongst his men, and reputed a brave and energetic officer. He probably mistrusted
from the first that his force was too small; and hence the delay in the attack, and the dispatch
of the little party of riflemen merely to satisfy General Walker. Be that as it may, upon hearing
our report, he recalled the advanced party, and immediately sent off to Rivas to say he could
do nothing against the town without a reinforcement.

In the mean time those of the men who were off guard lay about under the trees and ate oranges,
with which the alcalde's yard was stocked plentifully, whilst such wounded as had been brought
in were laid on the floor of the house, and their wounds probed by the surgeon; whereupon,
being but young soldiers mostly, there arose loud outcries and dismal bellowings. For my own
part, I set about comforting my mule, who had been under saddle since leaving Rivas. I unsaddled
him, brought him an armful of tortilla corn from the alcalde's kitchen-loft, some water from
the well, and left him making merry as if he had nothing worse ahead of him.

Some time after mid-day the rest of our company came out from Rivas, and we immediately had
orders to ride up the road and fire upon the enemy's outpost,--which, as the riflemen had been
withdrawn and our advanced picket was now nearly half a mile from the town, promised to be
a service of some danger. Therefore one of our commissioned officers, afterwards dismissed
the service for cowardice, was here seized suddenly with the colic,--so badly, that he was
unable to ride with us at his post. Other sick men being left in quarters at Rivas, we counted
now but little over twenty men,--armed with Mississippi or Sharpe's rifles, and some of us
with the revolvers we had brought from California. After passing the adobe building, garrisoned
last night, but now empty, we advanced with great care, our leader taking often the precaution
to dismount and peer with bared head over the cactus-hedge which crowned the right-hand bank
of the road and shut us in on that side completely. At every turn of the road he repeated his
reconnoissance, so that our advance was very slow, giving a watchful enemy almost time to place
an ambush, if they had none ready prepared. It was as sweet a place for a trap as greaser's
heart could wish. On our right was the impenetrable cactus-hedge, with an open space beyond,
terminated at the distance of a few yards by a wood or plantain-patch. On the left was another
wood, matted with tangled underbrush and vines which no horseman could penetrate. On either
side half a dozen men might couch in ambush and shoot us down in perfect security.

We passed on, however, without disturbance, or sight of an enemy, until we came nearly to the
edge of the town and saw the glistening roof of the church appear above the foliage,--where
sat sundry carrion-loving buzzards, elbowing each other, shuffling to and fro with outspread
wings, and chuckling, doubtless, over the promise of glorious times. As we go on, suddenly
heads appear over the bushes less than a hundred yards in front, and we hear the vindictive
whistle of Minié-balls above us. Our leader, calling upon us to fire, began himself to blaze
away rapidly with his Colt's revolver. We huddled forward, with little care for order, and
delivered some dozen Mississippi and Sharpe's rifles. There were nervous men in the crowd;
for, after the discharge, dust was flying from the road within thirty feet of us. However,
some aimed higher; and when we looked again, the heads had disappeared. One bold greaser stepped
out into the road and sent his Minié-ball singing several yards above us, then darted back
quickly, before any of us could have him. We waited a moment to see others, but they seemed
to be satisfied;--and we were satisfied,--with prospect of a swarm bursting out on us from
the town; so, sinking spurs into our weary animals, we made good pace back to the camp,--not
without an alarm that a troop of well-mounted lancers was behind us.

In the course of the afternoon, General Henningsen arrived, bringing a fine brass howitzer,
and a small reinforcement of infantry--as those armed with rifled muskets and bayonets were
called--and artillerymen; and, after some hours' rest, he ordered a fresh attempt with the
howitzer, supported by somewhere near two hundred men. This party was received with so fierce
a fire at the barricade that they shrank back, leaving the howitzer behind in the road,--so
that the enemy were on the point of capturing it, when a brave artilleryman touched off the
piece, loaded with grape-shot, almost in their faces, and, strewing the earth with dead, sent
the others flying back to the barricade. This artilleryman told me that an old officer amongst
the enemy stood his ground alone after the discharge, and swore manfully at the fugitives,
but they were panic-struck and took no heed; and it was his assertion, that, had a small part
of the riflemen rallied and charged at this time, they might have gone over the barricade without
difficulty or hindrance. As it was, the howitzer was scarcely brought off, and the attack failed
ingloriously. Whether this story of the artilleryman were true or false, we heard in other
ways, by general report, that the riflemen had behaved badly, and quailed as the filibusters
had scarcely done before; though, after all, it will seem unreasonable to blame these two hundred
or less, disease-worn and spiritless men, for not whipping ten hundred out of a barricaded
town. It may be worth saying here, that, seeing things in Nicaragua from a common soldier's
befogged view-point, and having only general rumor, or the tales of privates like myself, for
parts of an engagement where I was not present, I may easily make mistakes in the numbers,
and otherwise do Walker and his officers, or the enemy, injustice. Yet I may be excused, since
I am not attempting a history of the war, but merely some account of my own experience, passive
and active.

Late in the evening our company assisted to carry some wounded to Rivas. Amongst them was Captain
Finney, mentioned before as the first man struck by the enemy. He seemed to be a brave and
uncommonly considerate officer, and whilst being carried in on a chair, suffering with his
death-wound, he showed concern for his supporters, and insisted on having them relieved upon
the smallest sign of fatigue. He was taken to the quarters of a friend, where he died a few
days afterward. The other wounded were carried to the hospital, and, finding no one there to
take charge of them, we left them to themselves, lying or sitting upon the floor, dismal and
uncared-for enough.

After dark we were again in the saddle and riding out to Obraja, in charge of a commissary's
party, with provisions for the detachment of foot. But after getting a little way from the
town, we were overtaken by an order from General Walker, stopping the provisions, and directing
us to ride on and recall the detachment to Rivas; he having changed his mind about dislodging
the enemy at this tardy hour. We reached the camp some hours into the night, and, after a little
delay, calling in the pickets, and securing some native women who lived in the vicinity, to
prevent their carrying word of our movement to the enemy, the detachment commenced its retrograde
march,--leaving the enemy victorious, and free to go where they wished.

I remember, several times on this march, when the detachment had made some temporary halt,
seeing a grim-faced dog, of the terrier species, trot along the line to the front of the column,
where we rangers stood, and then, satisfied seemingly that all was well ordered, turn himself
round and trot back to the rear again.

He did this with such a look and air, that it struck me he felt himself in some way responsible
for our party. He was, indeed, if the tales current about him were true, the most remarkable
character in all that very variegated conglomerate of characters which made up the filibuster
army. He had appeared in the camp long before, coming, some said, from the Costa Ricans, with
whom he became disgusted on account of their bad behavior in battle on several occasions when
he was there to see. After this desertion, if it were thus, he followed the Americans faithfully,
through good and bad fortune, retreat or victory; always going into battle with them,--where
he actually seemed to enjoy himself,--trotting about amidst the whewing of bullets, the uptossing
of turf, and the outcries of wounded men, with calm heart, and tail erect,--envied by the bravest
even. On an occasion when General Walker was attacking the Costa-Ricans in Rivas, the dog entered
the plaza ahead of the rest, and, finding there one of his own species, he forthwith seized
him, and shook him, and put him to flight howling,--giving an omen so favorable, that the greasers
were driven out of the town with ease by the others. Even his every-day life was sublime, and
elevated above the habit of vulgar dogs. He allowed no man to think himself his master, or
attach him individually by liberal feeding or kind treatment, but quartered indiscriminately
amongst the foot, sometimes with one company, sometimes with another,--taking food from whoever
gave it, but showing little gratitude, and despising caresses or attempts at familiarity. He
seemed, indeed, to consider himself one amongst the rest,--one and somewhat, as they say; and
his sole apparent tie with his human friends seemed to be the delight which he took in seeing
them kill or killed. With this penchant, it was said, he never missed a battle, and went out
with every detachment that left the camp to see that none should escape him unaware.--But enough
of him,--strange dog, or devil.

The withdrawal from Obraja was opposed, so rumor said, by Henningsen and other officers; and
it certainly had a most depressing effect upon the men, whilst it elated the enemy correspondingly,
giving them a degree of confidence which they had never attained to before. It was agreed on
all hands, by all critics whom I heard, that, having once begun this attempt, General Walker
should have carried it through successfully, even if it required his whole force. However,
as only part of the enemy's force was on land, the other part being supposed to be still aboard
the steamers or on the island, General Walker possibly feared an attack on Rivas, should he
send out a very large detachment,--remembering, too vividly, a former blunder, when he left
Granada with all his army to attack the enemy at Masaya, and the enemy, making a détour, came
upon his camp in Granada, and destroyed baggage, ammunition, and all it contained.

The next day the foot lay quiet in Rivas, and had rest. The rangers, however, were in the saddle
almost continuously, and, what with foraging, broken sleep, and expeditions by day and night,
those of us who had garrisoned Virgin Bay were become worried nearly past grumbling. On this
day our own company rode out to Obraja, to visit the enemy's picket again, and afterwards to
San Jorge on the lake, to guard the transportation of a row-boat thence to Rivas. The boat
was one of those borrowed from the vessels in San Juan harbor for the purpose of retaking the
steamers, and had been rowed up to San Jorge, and was now removed to Rivas, to prevent its
seizure by the enemy,--the garrison at Virgin Bay having burnt the brig, and marched to Rivas,
when the enemy first appeared on land at Obraja. So that the whole American force (except the
crew of the little schooner in which General Walker and his fifty original followers first
came to Nicaragua, and which was lying at this time in San Juan harbor) was now concentrated
at Rivas; the enemy being eight or nine miles behind them at Obraja, or on the lake with the
two steamers. As we rode through the town of San Jorge, the place seemed almost deserted, and
I remember lingering with others to haversack some bunches of yellow plantains which hung in
an empty house on the plaza. The delay may have come near being fatal to us, for we heard afterwards
that we had been gone but a little while, when a troop of the enemy's horse rode into the place,
reconnoitred, and returned in the direction in which they came. Their reconnoissance in San
Jorge was explained soon afterwards.

Some time in the last half of the night following, I was detailed, along with a considerable
detachment from two mounted companies, to ride on a scout toward Obraja. On the outward ride
I was but half-awake, and my recollection of our course is confused: however, I think it was
somewhere between Potosí and Obraja that we came to a halt, and I was aroused by some excitement
in the party. Pickets were hastily posted in several directions, whilst the officers gathered
about some natives awakened from a neighboring hut, and seemed to question them earnestly.
We soon heard that the enemy were on the road moving from Obraja, and that a large force had
a little while before passed this place going eastward. The natives, prone to exaggeration,
declared that this force had been an hour in passing,--with baggage, eight pieces of cannon
mounted on ox-carts, several hundred pressed native Nicaraguans, tied and guarded to prevent
their running away, and a long train of women to nurse the wounded. The Chamorristas, it seemed,
had been around pressing all the native men they could find into service against the Americans;
and whilst we were here, two, who had been hiding all day in the bushes to avoid the conscription,
came out and asked us to take them with us to Rivas,--they preferring, if forced to take sides,
to join el valiente Walker.

This is the stripe of most Central American soldiers. The lower classes are lazy and cowardly,
little concerned about politics, and must generally be impressed, let the cause of war be what
it may. And I am persuaded, that, since General Walker never harnessed them into his service,
as their own chiefs were doing perpetually, but let them swing in their hammocks and eat their
plantains, (provided they lived beyond his forage-ground,) un-called-for, they were so far
well satisfied with his government. However, their sympathy, supposing he had it, were worth
little to him; since it takes a stronger impulsion than this to put them in motion to do anything,--a
strong pulling by the nose, indeed,--such as their native rulers know how to apply.--But this
is speculative, and neither here nor there.

After getting all the information concerning the enemy that was to be had from these people,
the detachment returned to Rivas at a fast trot, with the two friendly natives mounted behind,
on such stronger animals as were able to carry double burden. We all supposed, that, now the
enemy were again out of cover and on the open road, or, leastwise, in the confusion of a new
camp, there would be an immediate attack on them. But General Walker followed his own head;
and, after making our report, we saw no stir, and heard nothing until morning,--when it was
known that the enemy were all moved into San Jorge, with only some two miles' space between
us. This place, being on the lake, was more convenient for provisions, which were easily brought
by the steamers from the island of Ometepec and the towns and haciendas along the shore,--and
the enemy had gained boldness to go there by our repulse at Obraja: or it may be that the force
at Obraja had come down from Granada by land, and so only continued their march to San Jorge,--though
the rumor was, that they had landed from the lake, as I have said.

But be that as it may, time was given them to barricade at San Jorge, till near the middle
of the forenoon, and then Generals Henningsen and Sanders were sent out with some four hundred
riflemen and infantry to drive them into the lake, which lay some few hundred yards behind
them. During the first part of the attack, our company remained in Rivas, listening anxiously
to the uproar at San Jorge,--every volley fired by the combatants being borne distinctly to
us by the east wind. For some time there was a continuous rattle of musketry, with rapid detonations
of deeper-mouthed cannon,--at each roar shaking our suspended hearts,--for we knew that our
own men were using small arms only. After a while this abated, grew irregular, and almost ceased.
An order then came for our company to mount and join the combatants. We galloped down the broad
and almost level highway which passes between Rivas and San Jorge, bordered a great part of
its length, on either side, by cactus-hedges, broken at various intervals by the grassy by-lanes
that run out to the neighboring haciendas or parallel roads. At places where there is a slight
elevation, the bottom of the road is worn several feet below the level by the carts which ply
between Rivas and the lake. Opposite one of these, where the banks sloped at a sharp angle,
we came upon General Henningsen and a detachment of musketeers resting on the right bank of
the road, and halted beside them. The men were sitting under the shade of an adobe, refreshing
themselves with oranges; and those in the nearest rank were close enough to hand us fruit and
keep their seats on the grass. Five or six hundred yards up the road, the large church which
stood on the plaza of San Jorge, with the door facing us, and a low wall of white stone running
squarely from its side across to the right, ended the vista between banks of green foliage.
Our view stretched across the plaza, which seemed to be empty and unbarricaded; and I remember
the painted door of the church beyond, the red-tiled roof, the low, flanking wall of white
stone, all dazily trembling in the unsteady atmosphere radiating from the heated road,--whilst
a cloud of white smoke was sailing slowly away to the west. It was a hot and tranquil scene.
But I always think of it with the same secret disgust with which the shipwrecked traveller
looks upon the placid ocean the day after the angry storm has passed over it; for it was here
I first saw the cruelty of a round shot.

When we came to a halt, there seemed to be a lull in the struggle, and no enemy was anywhere
visible, nor was firing heard from any direction. The infantry, though within range of small
arms from the town, were concealed by the bushes, and the enemy were scarcely aware of their
presence. But when our company came galloping up the road, in full view, their attention was
aroused, and we had scarcely checked our animals and exchanged a few words with the foot-soldiers,
when a column of smoke shot up from the wall in front.--"Now look out!" exclaimed some one.
I looked, but saw nothing to follow, and had turned my attention elsewhere, when I heard a
hissing noise, as of something rushing swiftly past, and at the same time turf is thrown into
the air, the horses start aside in affright, and outcries of pain and terror assail the ear.
After a confused moment, I saw that the shot had struck in the line of infantry a few feet
on our right. One man, the drummer of the party, was running about in the fluttered crowd with
his hand hanging by a shred, crying, "Cut it off! cut it off! D--your souls, why don't some
of you cut it off?" Another lay struggling on the ground, with the fleshy part of his thighs
torn abruptly off, calling upon some one for God's sake to take him away from there. But the
dismallest sight was a bloody shape, with face to the ground, fingers clutching the grass with
aimless eagerness, and shivering silently with an invisible wound. Twisting convulsively, it
rolled down into the road under our horses' feet,--and there this human form, which some call
godlike, writhed and floundered like a severed worm, and disguised itself in blood and dust.

But it is dangerous to look long upon the wounded; an old soldier never rests his eye there;
it is the greatest mistake of the raw one; and it was well enough for some of us that our attention
was timely drawn away by alarm of another shot from the town. We spurred our horses up the
bank on the left; the foot-soldiers rushed behind the adobe; and this time the shot passed
harmlessly down the road. Before another, General Henningsen had ordered us all to move forward
and get to cover. The foot stopped in the right branch of a by-lane which crossed the road
a little way ahead. The rangers moved into the same lane,--but on the left, and divided by
the highway from the foot. Here we were entirely hidden from the town by a belt of small trees
and bushes. Nevertheless, the enemy's round shot, tearing through the trees, still pursued,
and the Minié-balls, though thrown from smooth-bored guns, sang above and far beyond us. At
this place, as near as I recollect, above a dozen men were killed and wounded,--most of them
by that first round shot.

Our company shortly after was separated, and placed, for the most part, as videttes, at various
points near the town. Some hours after our arrival, (which time was spent by the filibusters
in drinking spirits and resting from the late unsuccessful assault,--by the enemy in barricading
their position, and drinking spirits, perhaps, likewise,) General Henningsen led an attack
with part of the foot,--taking several of us rangers along in the capacity of couriers, to
ride off to Rivas at any important turn of the fight and report to General Walker. The enemy
had taken position about the plaza, in the church, and behind the stone wall at its side, where
they had by this time strengthened themselves with barricades. They had cannon looking towards
every assailable point; and also on top of the church, in the cupola, they had mounted a small
piece, from which they threw grape against our men advancing on any side. It proved a great
source of annoyance throughout the day. Their number was not certainly known, at least among
the ranks, but was rumored as high as two thousand men,--Costa-Ricans, Guatemalans, and Chamorristas.

General Henningsen moved up by a straggling street, with an adobe here and there, and the intervals
filled up with fruit-trees, bushes, and cactus-hedges. Grape-shot, which may be the saddest
thing, touching the body, on earth, made miserable noise above us and miserable work among
us; and we couriers had leave to dismount and crawl nearer the ground. General Henningsen gained
respect from us by sitting his horse alone. He was a soldier, it is said, from a boy, in European
wars,--where this were a feeble skirmish; yet he wore his life here, perhaps, more loosely
than in many a noisier battle. However, he seemed calm and easy enough,--never moving his head,
even slightly, when the shot whizzed nearest him. General Walker, though a brave man, and cool
in battle, will nevertheless dodge when a bullet hisses him fiercely. So would almost all his
officers or soldiers, that I had an opportunity to notice. Yet, after all, it is a mere trick
of the nerves, and only indicates familiarity and long service, or a deaf ear,--and not want
of self-possession or strength of heart. The advance at length became so harassing that the
party halted under cover on the roadside, whilst yet some distance from the plaza, and from
this lodgment the couriers were sent off to report progress at Rivas.

My post thenceforward was, with that of others, at the head of a lane not far from the town,
where we heard the voices of the combatants and the whistling of balls, but could see nothing.
After some hours' comparative quiet, the drums began beating a charge again, and every gun
on the ground seemed awakened and doing its best. Then there was a loud, heart-lifted shout,
which rose above the din, and gave us too much joy; and, a moment after, Colonel Casey, a hard-faced,
one-armed man, spurred past towards Rivas, saying, as he went, that our men were in the plaza,
the greasers were running, and "we had 'em, sure as hell!" I recollect some one observing,
that it were of no use to believe Colonel Casey, for he was the greatest liar in the army of
Nicaragua. And shortly after, the firing having ceased, another officer, Baldwin, I think it
was, came past and told us, with curses of vexation, that the men had been checked, by command,
in the heat of the assault, when the greasers were already wavering,--and that the latter,
recovering, had rebarricaded so strongly, that we might now all go back to Rivas and whistle.

However, this failure was not the end. Towards evening, another detachment renewed the assault,
and the uproar commenced again. It seems, that, during the whole day, there was no simultaneous
attack by all the detachments. Now, it was the infantry who charged,--with the riflemen in
reserve, probably to prevent a rout, in case the enemy pursued a repulse; then, it was the
riflemen, with the infantry in reserve; and so alternating through three or four charges;--so
that there never could have been more than a very contemptible force facing the enemy at one time.

As it grew late, the wagons began to jolt past, removing the wounded to Rivas. Some were drunk
and merry in spite of their wounds; and their laughter and drunken sport made strange concert
with the cries and curses of the others. I remember one man going by on foot, with a small
cut on the brow, from which blood was flowing copiously. He said the wound was a mere scratch,--too
slight to have sent him out of the fight, had not the blood run down into his eyes and blinded
him, preventing his aim. Yet this small affair brought his death shortly afterwards. The surgeons
at Rivas gave him no care,--not so much as to wash his wound, or have him wash it; and the
climate is so malignant to strangers, that the smallest cut, with the best care, heals only
after long hesitation.

At length night came on, and our men drew off,--foiled at every attempt, having sustained great
loss, and, apparently, made little impression on the enemy. They lay on their arms, however,
in the outskirts, expecting to renew the attack during the night; and, to assist at this, a
party of rangers had orders to leave their horses in quarters, and march on foot to join the
others. Quitting our horses with regret, we walked to San Jorge, where the foot lay, awaiting
the hour of attack. We found them stomach-qualmed with hunger, weary of fighting, thoroughly
disheartened, and provoked against their officers. One told how an officer, whose duty it was
to lead the charge, took shelter behind an orange-tree no bigger than his wrist, and shouted,
"Go on, men! go on!" when he should have been saying, "Come on!" and how another, become stupid
with aguardiente, had tried to force his men to a barricade, when their cartridge-boxes were
empty, and their unbayonetted arms useless. There seemed also to have been slackness among
the men; and some were lamenting, that the First Rifles were not what they used to be;--anciently
they only wanted to see the greasers; to-day they were found taking to the bushes. They all
agreed that no great number of the enemy had been killed,--whilst the filibusters, they doubted,
must have lost nearly one-third of their men and many of their best officers;--among the number
I recollect Major Dusenbury, highly praised.

There was one affair, however, over which they crowed and took fierce satisfaction. They told
it thus:--A detached party, of about thirty of them, were seated on the roadside drinking aguardiente,
preparatory to advancing. On one side was a cactus-hedge, and a grove of plantain a little
in front. Whilst they sat here deeply absorbed in the aguardiente, a considerable party of
the enemy got amongst the plantain-trees, and fired a hundred muskets into them at the distance
of a few rods. Strange to say, the greasers were so nervous at finding no barricade between
them, or were such contemptible marksmen, that not a shot took serious effect; only the demijohn
of aguardiente was shivered into a thousand pieces, and the liquor ran out into the grass.
The filibusters jumped up astounded and disordered; but, seeing so much good liquor running
away wastefully into the grass, they grew terrible. It was an insult and injury which both
men and officers appreciated. It gave every man in the troop a personal quarrel with the enemy.
"Charge 'em!" shouted the captain; "we'll pay the scoundrels for the miserable trick!" At full
speed they swept through a gap in the hedge, and rushed into the plantain-grove before the
enemy had time to reload. But when the greasers saw them coming on fiercely, their hearts failed
them, and, turning their backs, they fled towards the town. Never were filibusters or men-of-war
better pleased than now! They rattled on furiously behind the nimble greasers. They sent howling
death into their midst at every step of the chase. They passed bloody forms stretched here
and there upon the earth. They followed the flying foe even to the edge of the town, and saw
its hostile swarm running hither and thither in alarm.--Alas! General William Walker, why were
you not here at this propitious moment, with all your brave spirits, invincible with rum, behind
you? Then might you have rushed with the fugitives into the town, and hurled the yellow-skinned
invaders into the lake! Then might the flag of Regeneration have waved even at this day over
the hills and valleys of Nicaragua,--and the unfortunate author of this history have received
a reward for his services!--Ay de mí! Even now, reposing in the shade of the palm-tree, fanned
by the orange-scented breeze that blows over the lake, I might drink the immortal juice of
the sugarcane, called aguardiente, and dream, and gaze at the cloud-wrapped cone of Ometepec!--But
I must forget this.

The dead killed in this plantain-patch were all that our men obtained sight of. How many fell
behind the barricades, where all the serious fighting took place, it was impossible to tell;
though there was no reason to think that the enemy, fighting under cover, had suffered at all
proportionably with our men, or, indeed, had suffered equally, losing man for man, except that
ours were the better marksmen.

We passed a cold and sleepless night, awaiting the word to take up arms and advance; but in
the mean time General Walker had changed his intention, and, when morning broke, the whole
force quitted the outskirts and marched back into Rivas. The killed and wounded by the whole
affair were reported officially at one hundred, or thereabout,--underrated, most probably,
for effect upon the men. It was enough, however, considering the filibusters had no more than
four hundred engaged. Amongst them, though not reported, was that devil-hearted dog which I
have mentioned heretofore. He fell, shot through the head, whilst advancing with the others
toward the barricade. He was lamented by the whole army,--by many superstitiously, even,--who
said he had gone through all Walker's hard stresses so far untouched, and his end was prophetic
of downfall.

And it is even true, that from this battle General Walker's prospects clouded rapidly. A proclamation,
issued by the Costa-Rican government, promising fugitive filibusters free passage to the United
States, found its way into Rivas, and immediately worked immense mischief, and was, indeed,
the instrument of his overthrow. The men had no sooner seen it than they began to leave as
fast as they found opportunities to escape. Guards were placed around the town, and spies in
every company; but it was of no avail; and every morning it was rumored through the camp that
this or that number had got off for Costa Rica during the night. General Walker, in a speech
which he made a few days after to infuse new spirit, said that these were the cowards,--whose
absence was beneficial, and from whom it was well that the army should be purged. However,
this was exaggerated. It is true, doubtless, that there were many leaving merely from fear,
who would have chosen to stay with him, rather than trust to the promises of a people believed
to be treacherous and promise-breaking, and whose hatred they had incurred,--had the battles
of San Jorge and Obraja been successful. And, indeed, the filibuster ranks were not wanting
in cowards. Cowards might be induced to come on a desperate enterprise like this, through misrepresentation
by Walker's own agents; through mere thoughtlessness, or mistake,--not knowing what soldier's
metal was in them; or, with the bayonet of Hunger against their backs at home, they might be
unmindful of any other bayonet on the distant shore of Nicaragua. (It should be musket-shot,
however; for the greasers never found heart to use the bayonet.) And then again, many, who,
when they first reached Nicaragua, were no cowards, after a few months' stay, became changed,--by
the depressing effects of fever, by loss of confidence in their drunken officers, and by the
absence of all incentive to fight stoutly for a leader so unpopular as Walker. It was a common
saying, that in this army an old rule was reversed,--the veterans were worse fighters than
the recruits. The soldier was at his best when he first landed upon the Isthmus, raw and healthy.
After that, he rapidly deteriorated, losing spirit with every battle, until he became at last
a thoroughbred coward. Seven or eight greasers to one filibuster was said to be good fighting,
at one time; but now three or four to one was thought to be great odds; and before the game
ended, I hear, they were become equally matched, man for man, almost. But, whatever General
Walker said in his speech, this class of weak ones were not always the deserters. It required
some little energy or strength of legs, with which these were unfurnished, to go over to the
enemy at San Jorge, or walk down to Costa Rica; and the fact was, that from the first many
of the healthiest and liveliest men, whose defection could least be borne, were leaving,--not
from fear, mainly, but because by this proclamation they were offered the first opportunity
to escape from a disagreeable service to which they thought themselves bound by no tie of love
or honor.

It was now about time for a steamer to arrive at San Juan on the Pacific with the California
passengers; and the next day, or the second day, perhaps, succeeding the battle at San Jorge,
General Walker said to General Sanders, in his quiet, whining way,--"General Sanders, I am
going to take two hundred and fifty riflemen and the rangers and go down to San Juan to bring
up our recruits to Rivas; and if three thousand greasers are on the Transit road, I intend
to go through them." Accordingly, the riflemen, the ranger regiment, and a small party of artillerymen
with one of the two brass howitzers, met in the plaza, and set out on this expedition at midnight,
with Generals Walker and Sanders both in the party.

The route of the detachment was the one I have mentioned before as inland through the forest,
and striking the Transit road some miles west of the lake and Virgin Bay. It was firmly believed
that we should meet the enemy somewhere on the Transit road,--since the hills through which
it passed offered many excellent barricading-points, and it would seem a matter of great importance
to them to cut us off from junction with any fresh recruits the steamer might land at San Juan.
So there was much preparatory drinking amongst the officers, (yet I say it not in slander,
for many were brave enough for any deed, and drank before battle only because they drank always,)--and
less amongst the men solely because spirits had become scarce around Rivas, and dear; and there
were very few, truly, who had not ceased long since to carry coin in their pockets. The captain
of our company, who was an incautious man, and was frequently drinking more than was needful,
on this occasion drank more than he was fitted to bear; and whilst the detachment was stopped
some time getting the wheel-piece over a hard place in the road, his strong friend Aguardiente
brought him to the ground, as he sat on his mule near the front with his company,--where he
lay in eruptive state like a young toper, and so falling asleep lost his mule, which strayed
into the forest to browse, causing him much embarrassment and confused search when the detachment
was ready to start. Being up again, however, the sleep and stomachic alleviation proved beneficial,
and we, his soldiers, followed after him in much greater comfort and confidence.

Such delays by the howitzer, and a wagon transporting spare muskets for the expected recruits,
were so frequent, that we made but slow progress, and when we emerged from the woods the sun
was already shining upon the broad Transit road,--I might have said like a glory on the brow
of Ometepec, but my memory is bad, and I doubt whether the fact may not be that the sun rises
upon this point from lower down on the lake. After entering the Transit road, the rangers were
sent ahead to discover if there were an enemy in the way. Our regiment, as we called it, now
together for the first time since I joined it, consisted of some seventy men, divided into
three companies, all under command of Colonel Waters,--a soldierly-looking man, and, moreover,
brave, and not without training in the Mexican War. Some time before the regiment had numbered
one hundred, but had become thus reduced by disease and the enemy.

On this ride I remember a feeble infusion of that excellent spirit which, since the days of
Sir Walter Scott, ought to belong to all horse-soldiers, moss-troopers, or mounted rangers,
but which I had despaired of ever finding in General Walker's service. It is true we had no
bugler, or standard-bearer, or piece of feather in the troop, or, indeed, any circumstance
of war, save our revolvers and Sharpe's rifles, vermin and dirty shirts. Nevertheless the morning
was splendid, with a fresh breeze behind us; the road was hard and smooth, and rang under our
horses' feet; and withal I felt, that, if we should see a troop of greaser lancers ahead, in
good uniform, we might run 'em down, and bullet 'em, and strip 'em, with good romantic spirit,
even.

But this is a most hollow cheat which Sir Walter Scott and other book-men have played off on
some weak-headed young men of our low-minded generation. There is no doubt but a man seated
amongst ten thousand cavalry, who shake the earth as they charge, ought to feel himself swell,
as part of an avalanche or mighty Niagara,--as part of the mightiest visible force which feeble
man can enter or his spirit commingle with. This were no contemptible joy, which the thin-blooded
philosopher might laugh at,--better, indeed, than most to be found here on this fog-rounded
flat of ours, where some few melodies from heaven and countless blasts from hell meet, and
make such strange, unequal dissonance. But, alack! alack! it is not for the feeble, or the
young soldier, fresh from his plough or his yardstick, his briefs or his pestle. For how shall
we who have all our lives been standing guard against the approach of death, who start horror-shaken
from the dropping of a tile, whose small wounds are quickly bound up by tender mother or sister,
and lamented over,--how shall we feel romantic in the midst of a shower of bullets? Enough
done, if our vanity or sense of duty hold us there in any spirit, so that we do the needed
trigger-work, and not turn tail and disgrace ourselves. Even the veteran's satisfaction, since
the laying aside of steel armor, is not much, to be sure, or is gathered after the battle.
There is some savage ecstasy, perhaps, when he sees his enemy fall, or when he sees his back;
this last, indeed, a glorious sight for any soldier,--worth rushing at the cannon's mouth to
look at, almost. But the man, be he veteran or other, who tells me he found pleasure on the
field where the Minié-balls kill afar off, in cold blood,--I know him for one of the eccentric,
stupid, or talkers for purposes of vanity.--But this will suffice.

There were three places on the road, amongst the Cordillera ridges, where, in former wars,
a Costa-Rican force, flying before the filibusters, had stopped to barricade, and gathered
heart to withstand their pursuers awhile,--long enough to bark the surrounding trees with musket-shot,--some
of them, indeed, amid their topmost branches; for it is a greaser-failing to shoot inordinately
high. Each of these sites we approached with caution, expecting to see an enemy there; but
there was none, and we came down safely at length to our old shed-camp. Here we halted, and
made our station, as it was more convenient for pasturage, whilst the foot passed on to San
Juan, two miles beyond.

The steamer not arriving, we remained at this place several days, employed as before, with
the sugar-cane and the wood-ticks, miserable enough.

In the mean time, the foot at San Juan, finding unusual temptation to escape from this place,
so much nearer the Costa-Rican line, were leaving in large parties; and unwilling service was
made of the rangers to intercept the fugitives, by posting them below on all the paths leading
through the forest to Costa Rica. General Walker esteemed these more faithful, because they
had been more considerately treated, better fed, allowed greater freedom and privilege,--having
no drill, loose discipline, and exemption from guard-duty when with the foot; and, above all,
their part of the service being healthier, and, though more fatiguing, far preferable, on the
whole, to the other. One night I was detailed, with others, on this disagreeable duty, and
remember it, for other reasons, as the most wretched night of all that I passed in Nicaragua.
Our station was on the bank of a little wooded stream, some miles below San Juan. After the
guard had been posted, I lay down to get some hours' sleep, which I needed,--but was no sooner
on the ground than a swarm of infinitesimally small creatures, of the tick genus, whose den
I had invaded, came over me, and the rest was merely one sensation of becrawled misery; so
that, notwithstanding great previous loss of sleep, I went again unrefreshed. I asked an old
filibuster who lay near me, how he could sleep through it. "Oh," said he, "I've got my skin
dirty and callous, and this easy-walking species, that can't bite, never troubles me." On this
subject I read the following in Mr. Irving's "History of Columbus" with some emotion:--"Nor
is the least beautiful part of animated nature [in those tropical regions] the various tribes
of insects that people every plant, displaying brilliant coats-of-mail, which sparkle to the
eye like precious gems." It seems strange to me that any good should be recognized in these
children of despair, which have caused me more unhappiness than all the world's vermin beside.
I think this praise must be from Mr. Irving himself, looking up the picturesque. It is not
possible that Columbus would have had the heart to flatter and polish up these mailed insects,
who, in his day, ate him, turned him over and over, and harried him more than ever was Job
by Satan.

Next morning, whilst we were roasting green plantains in the fire for breakfast, a man dressed
in General Walker's blue-shirt-and-cotton-breeches uniform came upon us suddenly from out of
the woods beyond the stream. He was evidently going south,--but seeing our party, with startled
look, he turned, and went in the direction of San Juan. We knew him at once for a deserter,
but had no zeal to arrest him; and he had already got past us, when some one ejaculated,--"D---
him, why don't he go right? That's not the road to Costa Rica!" Upon this unlucky speech, the
officer in command of the detail, who, either through inattention or design, was suffering
the man to pass unquestioned, ordered him to be followed and seized. He was a German, and either
a dull, heavy fellow, or else stupefied by his terrible misfortune; and being unable to say
a consistent word for himself, the officer sent him off under guard to San Juan, where it was
well known what General Walker would do with him.

Some hours after this misadventure, as most of us took it, our detail was relieved and we rode
back to camp. The man who had been taken in the act of deserting was condemned to be shot at
San Juan this same evening, in presence of the whole detachment. He was led down to the beach,
and seated in a chair at the water's edge. He bore himself carelessly, or with an absent, almost
unconscious air, like one who felt himself acting a part in a dream. A squad of drafted riflemen
was brought up in front of him, and the word was given by a sergeant. They made their aim false
purposely, and but one shot took effect on the doomed man. He fell back into the water, where
he lay struggling, and stained the waves red with his blood. It was a wrenching sight, too
brutal far, to see the sergeant place his gun against the poor wretch's head, and end his agony!

It seemed so abominable to every spectator there that General Walker should thus seek to enforce
Devil's service from his men, entrapped mostly in the first place, without wages or half maintenance,
and with no claim upon them whatever, but by a contract without consideration on the one part,
on the other hard labor to the death,--that this exhibition, which in another army were calculated
to strengthen just authority, here only aroused indignation and disgust. This very night, after
witnessing the deserter's punishment, eleven men left the company to which he belonged in a
body, and were seen no more in Nicaragua. And though for selfish reasons I was concerned to
see the army falling to pieces, and the load of toil and danger increasing upon the rest of
us, yet both I and the rest acknowledged that there was no tie of honor or honesty to keep
any man with us who wished to escape; and this deed seemed to us without decent sanction.

The steamer at length made its appearance, and, after landing us about forty recruits, departed
south with the States passengers for Panamá; and afterwards, the new soldiers being all furnished
with muskets, the detachment started on its return to Rivas. On the way, it was rumored amongst
the men, that a reinforcement to the enemy, marching from Costa Rica, were halted at Virgin
Bay, and that General Walker was going to attack them. We hurried over the Transit road as
fast as the foot were able,--General Sanders, I recollect, riding far in advance, sometimes
out of sight, and thus giving himself to an ambush, had the enemy placed any. By repute he
was a man of extreme courage, and held his life so contemptuously that he would scarce hesitate
to charge an enemy's line by himself. But I fear that this time he had other impulse than his
innate valor; for there was no occasion for a solitary man, riding in these gloomy woods, to
be singing and hallooing, and whirling his sword about his head, and swaying to and fro on
his horse, unless he were strongly worked by aguardiente.

Reaching Virgin Bay some time after dark, we found the report of an enemy there untrue; but
the pickets were got out in remarkable haste, and all the native population--some dozen women
and children--were seized, to prevent discovery of us to the enemy, and I suppose there was
some expectation of an attack. However, liquor being plenty amongst the hotel-keepers at Virgin
Bay, the officers thought it a good place to get drunk in,--and many spent the night in that
endeavor, and in playing poker; so that in the morning, walking down to the lake to water my
mule, I met a colonel and a general staggering into quarters, rubbing their eyes sullenly,
having just lifted themselves from the street, where the honest god Bacchus, as a poet calls
him, had put them to bed the night before.

The steamer "San Carlos" still lay over at the island, under shadow of the volcano. The other
probably lay at San Jorge, by the enemy. The old brig formerly anchored at Virgin Bay having
been burned, there was now no hope of retaking these steamers, unless the party of Texans,
which we had by this time heard was fighting its way up the Rio San Juan, should succeed in
getting upon the lake with a boat from the river. But to-day we came near reaching the top
of this hope unexpectedly. For whilst we still delayed in Virgin Bay, smoke began to rise from
the chimneys of the "San Carlos," and in proper time she turned her prow and came across the
water directly toward us. It was scarcely possible that she knew anything of our presence in
Virgin Bay; and it was doubted by no one but she was coming to land there for some purpose;
and then her recapture, were she full of the enemy, was certain, in the spirit we then were
in: for all felt, that, could we once get the steamer into our hands, and reach the four hundred
fresh Texans on the river, the filibuster star would have shot up so high that it were ill-management
indeed that would ever pull it down again. Accordingly all were quickly driven into the houses,
and told to lie there close, and be ready to burst forth when the steamer touched her pier.
But we were miserably disappointed. She came steadily up within half a mile of land, and then,
catching an alarm, turned, and put swiftly back to the island. I afterward heard that two drunken
officers had rushed out into the street, and so apprised her of the danger.

After this the detachment set out towards Rivas. We advanced along the lake shore some distance,
fording the mouth of the little Rio Lajas, whose waters had lost much depth since I first,
passed over this road, crossing the stream in a bungo. In the forest we found, at one point,
trees felled across the road, as if the enemy had here been minded to oppose us; but we passed
by, seeing no one, and reached Rivas in good time, unmolested.

Arrived at Rivas, we found that a change was taking place in the character of the war. The
town had been threatened by the enemy during our absence, and General Henningsen was busy putting
it into a state better suited to repel any sudden attack. Pieces of artillery looked down all
the principal approaches, from behind short walls of adobe blocks, raised in the middle of
the street with open passage-ways on either side. Native men with machetes, watched by armed
guards, were clearing away the fine groves of orange, mango, and plantain, which everywhere
surrounded Rivas, and were fitted to cover the approach of an enemy. Others were tearing down
or burning the houses in the outskirts, to narrow the circle of defence. The tenants of these
houses--when they had any--were moved up nearer the plaza, or, if native, sometimes into the
country. The native population of Rivas, however, was scanty, consisting mostly of a few women,--of
the kindest and most affable sort. In what direction the men had all, or nearly all, gone,
I am unable to say. Doubtless some of them were with the Chamorristas.

So many of the houses were marked out to be pulled down, that General Walker was obliged to
quarter his new recruits in the church, a large stone building, and curious from the head of
Washington, easily identified, carved in relief on its facade. Hitherto some native women had
been accustomed to assemble in this church and worship, under care of a fat, unctuous little
padre, very obsequiously courteous toward filibusters;--and well he might be; for General Walker
was suspicious of all padres, and kept a stern eye upon them. Once he caught one of them, who
had preached treason against him within reach of his arm, and released him again only upon
payment of five thousand pesos. Another, for a like offence, was put into the guard-house,
and required to ransom himself at twenty-five hundred. What became of this one, whether he
paid his ransom and got out, or whether he stayed there until he lost oil and became lean on
the small ration furnished him, was not rumored. Yet, with all this in his memory, when the
present padre came again with his flock of women and found the church occupied by soldiers,
he went away scowling, and never even lifted his shovel-hat to me when I met him.

On the night succeeding our return from San Juan, General Walker determined to try a night
attack on San Jorge, hoping much from the fresh spirit and muscle of his forty Californians.
To assist in this, our company had orders to be on the plaza at two o'clock, afoot, with clean
rifles and forty rounds of ammunition. At one o'clock we arose and went down on the plaza,
in number about twenty, the rest of the company remaining behind on account of sickness. On
the way, however, the number was augmented by a second company of near twenty dismounted rangers,
with Colonel Waters at their head.

Whilst we stood, in rather low spirits, waiting the hour of departure, our captain procured
us a calabash of aguardiente, which, thinking upon the desperate work ahead of us and the infinite
toil and sleeplessness of the last few weeks, we considered excellent, and not to be spared.
Discomfort in battle is a positive evil, felt, perhaps, by all sons of Adam; and he who will
use means to get rid of it and leave himself free to work is no more a coward, so far, than
he who takes chloroform to prevent the pain of a tooth-pulling,--mere positive evil, likewise.
Aguardiente will serve a good purpose;--provided the head be not essentially weak, or too inflammable,
it ascends you into the brain, and dries you there, as one hath said, all the nervous, crudy
vapors that environ it. But this captain of ours drank too injudiciously, and, indeed, so obscured
himself with his drink, often, that we his men were loath to trust and follow him,--doubting
that he knew where he was about to take us, or for what purpose. To-night he strapped a large
canteen of aguardiente about his neck and wore it into battle,--and many times, as the danger
staggered, we saw him draw courageous spirit through the neck of it, and go on befogged and
reassured. Yet, withal, he was no greater coward than other men,--indeed, much braver than
most,--had been wounded whilst leading a forlorn hope over a barricade,--and would, I doubt
not, have fought well without aguardiente, had drinking been a mark of cowardice in the army.

At length all was ready, and, with something above three hundred riflemen and infantry, under
command of Generals Walker and Sanders, we started out on the San Jorge road some hours after
midnight. We kept along the highway until we began to approach the town, and then turned aside
into a by-lane crossing to the left. The by-lane was interrupted at one place by a deep pool
of water, through which the detachment plunging, half-leg deep, some of the weak-legged stumbled
and fell, getting their cartridge-boxes under, and spoiling their ammunition.

At the end of this lane we came into another highway running toward San Jorge, along which
we advanced rapidly. After a while we came to a halt, and a party was sent off; then forward
again, a corner turned, and another halt,--when I heard General Walker asking some one, in
composed voice, "Does he know exactly where we are?" Whilst we stood there, a sudden and hot
rattle of musketry began from the front, and we again advanced swiftly, by scattered adobes,
turning corners, and came in full view of a barricade some distance ahead spitting flashes
of fire crosswise into the right-hand side of the street. We crossed over from left to right,
and halted behind an adobe. On our right hand stood a grove of small trees, through which the
assailants had probably advanced, and in which, just ahead, hot work was now going on loudly,--with
Minié-balls, grape-shot, shouts, outcries, and blood enough doubtless. After some delay here,
part of us rangers, led by Colonel Waters, recrossed the street, and advanced, crouching, toward
the barricade spitting flames in front. We crept, double file, along a palisade of tall cactus
which bordered this part of the street, against whose thorns my neighbor on the right would
frequently thrust me, as the shot nipped him closely,--inconvenient, but without pain, so intense
was the distraction of the moment. We had crept within a few rods of the barricade, where we
had glimpse of faces through embrasures, amidst the smoke and flame, and our leader, as he
afterwards said, had it on his lips to order the forward rush,--when the party attacking on
our right, behind the trees, gave back, and our own mere handful was checked, and retraced
its steps running. A moment later, and we had gone upon that high barricade, some score of
us, without backers in the street, to draw on us the enemy's whole fire,--and very likely--unless
they had foolishly fled at our first rush--to be all killed there.

On the retreat, I with some others was ordered out of the ranks to pick up a wounded officer
and carry him off the ground. We took him down the street, turned a corner, and laid him on
the floor of a church some distance beyond. He had an arm broken and a bad wound in his body,--a
hopeless man; but upborne and defiant through aguardiente and native strength. After getting
him off our hands, we returned to our company, which we found sheltering behind the adobe where
we had halted when on the advance. Here we remained some time, with instructions from General
Walker (whom, at this time, we seemed to follow as personal guard) to keep ourselves out of
reach of the missiles flying on either side of the house. The darkness was so thick that we
could see only what was passing immediately around us, and therefore were ignorant as to the
position of the foot, and what was now doing amongst them. It was said, however, afterwards,
that their officers strove to rally and bring them up to another charge, but that they proved
mutinous, and refused to move.

They had suffered, indeed, discouragement enough. Colonel O'Neal, who had led them, was mortally
wounded; the barricade was too high and dangerous; they had tried to fire it without success.
Some of the forty recruits, who were in front of the party, had climbed over it; and these
afterwards affirmed, that, had the others followed then, the barricade had been gained; but
the older soldiers had degenerated, possessed little of these men's zeal or spirit, hesitated,
and, their colonel falling, gave back. Those who had gone over the barricade were killed there,
or came back with wounds,--one with a bayonet-thrust through the arm,--a most remarkable wound,
in which, perhaps, Central-Americans fleshed a bayonet for the first time.

Our company, or part of it,--for most had been placed about on pickets when the attack failed,--after
a while fell farther back, turned the corner before mentioned, faced about, and came to a stand
in the street, with an adobe house on the left. The street in which we stood ran straight forward,
and crossed the one down which we had just receded at right angles, a few feet ahead of us,
so that there was here a junction of four streets, or, I might better say, roads; for there
were no more than four disconnected houses in the immediate vicinity,--the one on the corner
beside us, one on the corner diagonally opposite, the one up the street running left, on the
far side, behind which we had a little while ago taken shelter, and the square stone church,
whither we had carried the wounded man, and which stood on the far side of the street some
yards behind us. The rest of the space was covered with fruit-trees and a heavy growth of hushes;
and concealed behind these lay the barricades and the plaza of San Jorge. But all this was
seen later; then the whole was wrapped in thick darkness, it yet lacking some short time of
daybreak.

Whilst our detached company was standing there, with the foot drawn up in the road a little
way before us, a single horseman came out from the enemy and galloped past our picket, stationed
up the road some distance ahead of the detachment. The picket fired upon him after he had passed;
he dropped under his horse's side, and galloped back, apparently unharmed; but, from the direction
of their fire, the picket was naturally mistaken for the enemy by the detachment in front,
who could see only the flashes through the darkness. Some stood their ground, and returned
the fire, placing the picket in great danger; but the bulk, already well scared by their repulse,
broke away panic-stricken, and came rushing down the road toward us, thinking the enemy were
charging behind them. Our company was suddenly overwhelmed, or borne along by the current,
ignorant of the cause of alarm. I brought myself up behind the corner house, where many of
the others were taking shelter. But hearing some one cry out, "To the church! to the church!
make a stand in the church!" I immediately ran across the road and entered the church by a
side-door. As I crossed the entrance, with two or three others, General Walker came running
up from the interior, with his sword out, crying,--"Where's that man came into the church?
Show me that man!" There were cocked revolvers with some of us, and it was, perhaps, well for
General Walker that the crowd now pouring in strongly at both front and side doors diverted
him. Turning to these, he threw himself first on one, then on another, battered, tugged, and
thrust them out at the door with such force as I hardly thought was in him. He was soon assisted
by Sanders, Waters, and other officers, and, with the curses and vociferations of these men,
the confused rush of the panic-stricken crowd in the dark, and the outcries of the wounded,
who lay about on the floor, as the fugitives trampled over them, there was such a pressure
as might unchart a young soldier, and strand him among his fears.

After seeing enough of it, I ran out again into the street, sore bestead, indeed, to know what
I should do. Day was beginning to break, and in the gray dawn I saw the men ejected from the
church running hither and thither, trying to rejoin their officers. And, there being neither
standards nor drums to collect by, the sergeants stood at divers points shouting at the top
of their voices the number and letter of their companies, and calling the fugitives to come
into ranks. Minié-balls whizzed about in the air or knocked up the dust from the street, and
firing was now and then heard near by in uncertain directions, where perhaps the enemy were
vexing our pickets. I believe it had been a helter-skelter day for us all, had the enemy got
in then and attacked us in the midst of this confusion. They might surely have driven us into
irretrievable rout, flying on the road to Rivas, by a spirited charge of fifty good men, or
much less.

Whilst I stood in doubt what course to take, I saw our captain, followed by three or four of
the company, looking over the ground for the missing, and I forthwith made up and joined him.
Others came in, one by one; and at length, the foot being gathered together in the adobes,
and things brought to order outside, the captain led his company into the church. General Walker
was still there, talking earnestly with Sanders and Waters, having cleared the church of the
fugitives. As we approached, he asked the captain, who by this time had emptied his canteen
of aguardiente, how many of his men were killed. The captain began cursing the foot, and telling
how he had been run over, having tried to stand,--and would have made a long talc, but Colonel
Waters touched him on the shoulder, and said in undertone,--"Lead your company off. You are
too drunk to talk now."

Our post thenceforward was at the several doors of the church, where we kept guard for the
wounded, who lay about the floor in miserable plight for lack of water. Outside, drop-shooting
was still kept up by the enemy in the bushes, and returned by ours from the doors.

It was an ill-looking situation for our small, panic-shaken party, resting here within pistol-shot
of an overwhelming and victorious enemy. The enemy's respect for us was too great and unreasonable.
It behooved them certainly, as honest soldiers, to come forth now and drive us out of their
town, in which, I think, if well commenced, there had been but little difficulty. Afterwards,
indeed, when I was amongst them in Costa Rica, they declared concerning this affair that they
knew we were in their power then, but refrained because they were unwilling to shed more filibuster
blood, preferring rather to conquer us by proclamation, and send us back to our homes unhurt,--more
expensive, to be sure, but recommended by humanity. Yet I laugh at this when I remember how
they crept snake-like in the bushes, and tried to pick us off at the doors, and how they strove,
without much danger to themselves, to run our pickets in on us, and get to see our backs turned,
whereupon, doubtless, humanity would have been little thought of, and filibuster blood cheap
enough. Indeed, once that morning, with little less than four-score horse, they came charging
with hope to pass a picket of ten men; but saddles being emptied, they recoiled, and their
leader being slain, whilst attempting to rally them, they fled contemptibly,--seven or eight
from one. However, this is only my revenge for much exasperation and deploration that they
would never come away from their pestiferous walls,--where, after all, they had a right to
stay, and will not be blamed by the candid and unbebullet-whizzed reader that they did stay.

We kept our post at the doors, annoyed and apprehensive, until the sun was an hour or so high,
when a party of rangers arrived from Rivas with led horses to transport the wounded,--which
incumbrance it was, I suppose, that prevented our withdrawal earlier. The wounded were carried
out and mounted, some with a soldier behind to support them. Colonel O'Neal, however, who had
both legs broken, was carried on a litter, with a cocked revolver on each side of him; for,
though he had lost much blood, there was yet spirit in him, and he wanted revenge for these
death-wounds. The pickets were now all brought in hastily, and the detachment began its march,
leaving, I remember, one stark form propped against the church wall, with staring eyeballs
fixed, and soul wandered somewhither. This, from his clean looks, had been one of the fresh
California recruits, who, indeed, had found miserable entertainment on their arrival in Nicaragua,
land of oranges and sunshine,--being first and longest this night at the barricade, and leaving
many of their number there.

A little way from the church we crossed a road running into San Jorge, and, looking up, saw
a high log-barricade, some fifty rods off, with embrasures and black-mouthed cannon frowning
down on us. Why we were not fired upon I know not, unless on that same score of humanity, or
because the enemy had abandoned it during last night's assault. Farther on, whilst passing
through a plantain-patch, we saw the greasers some way off in our rear, watching us, running
to and fro, and seemingly exercised with preparation for attacking. However, we passed out
into the road, and went on undisturbed, yet still with the enemy hovering behind us.

Coming to a place where an abrupt little mound rose at a fork in the road, our company, which
brought up the rear of the detachment, had orders to conceal itself behind this, and await
the pursuers, and give them check. In a moment they came galloping up the slope of a hill some
two or three hundred yards back, their heads only appearing at first, then the rest down to
the saddle, when we arose suddenly and gave them a volley of rifle-bullets. They dropped down
quickly, either to the ground or under their horses' bellies, in which manoeuvre some of them
rival the prairie Indians. Others coming up from behind, we gave them more, until they all
disappeared finally. After this we saw no more of them, and arrived at Rivas without further alarm.

This was now the third repulse we had sustained within a few days, with an aggregate loss,
perhaps, counting wounded, (who, as I have said, were more regretted than the dead,) not very
far under two hundred men,--and it became apparent that the filibuster day was over, unless
General Walker could find some stratagem in his head, or some better mode of fighting than
this confident rushing upon an overwhelming enemy, under strong cover, and grown bold with
success. The prospect, truly, began to look black enough. The men had lost confidence in themselves
and in their officers, no longer despised the enemy, and dreaded the barricades at San Jorge
so deeply that they would be led against them no more. Those who intended to desert avoided
every exposure to danger, and feigned sickness whenever detailed for service. One of the rifle
regiments had grown mutinous, upon some quarrel with its officers, and refused to do duty of
any kind, and it was absurd to attempt to compel it by aid of the others. The natives, who
had charge of the beef cattle, turned them all out of the corral, and ran away in the night,
leaving the army without meat, and the commissary force, some forty horsemen, to seek for prey
wherever it was to be found. And then there were ill reports heard about the party on the Rio
San Juan, and its success began to be doubted. But worse than all was the fast-spreading spirit
of desertion, which all saw would prove ruinous of itself, unless shortly stopped in some way.

At this juncture it might have been worth while for General Walker to form a corps for one
attack of all the men in his army who felt an earnest interest in driving the enemy out, and
were willing to fight desperately for the sake of it. There were scores of stout men acting
as lieutenants, captains, majors, etc., of slight performance in those capacities, but who,
had they been formed into companies, and asked to fight now one night, at this desperate juncture,
for the haciendas General Walker had promised them, would have done willing, perhaps, and excellent
service. To these might be added all those among the ranks to whom, from any cause, desertion
or expulsion from Nicaragua was disagreeable,--those who distrusted the Costa-Rican promises,
or feared disgrace at home, or had sick or wounded friends at Rivas, or were desperate, broken
men without other home, or with what other peculiar motives there might be. With this force
gathered to themselves by call for volunteers, allowed to choose their own officers, furnished
with Colt's revolvers, or bayonets, or both, and led in advance, as a forlorn hope, with ladders
to scale the barricades by,--it is likely the enemy might have been driven out, and the cause
of Regeneration set up once more. So, at least, it was thought by some. And, indeed, it must
have been extremely discouraging for one of better will to be fearful at every step that his
comrades would dart aside into the bushes and leave him unsupported; it must have served to
cripple the efforts of all the well-intentioned in the army, and should have been remedied.
However, no call for volunteers was ventured by General Walker,--he, probably, thinking it
too unreasonable to ask his men to do anything for him unforced.

There were some others who thought affairs might be retrieved, if General Walker were displaced,
at least from his military command, and Henningsen, or some other, put in his stead. He was
exceedingly unpopular, hated, indeed, by a great many, (I have known more than one who professed
to nourish the intent of shooting him during his next battle, when the deed could be covered,)
was respected only for his strong will and personal bravery, and had never been superseded,
solely, perhaps, because the great majority of his men were either without energy, or were
careless about everything but escape, and so felt no interest in dethroning him and setting
up another, when thereby they were not helping their chance of getting out of the Isthmus.
However, there was now a conspiracy commenced by some who were unwilling to leave Nicaragua,
and who distrusted General Walker's ability to save the filibusters much longer.

But these underworkers had made us no sign up to the night attack on San Jorge, and the day
succeeding that the writer lost sight of the filibuster camp, and knew what took place in it
no more. I will tell how the withdrawal was brought about, and then extinguish my story. Near
the middle of the day, after returning from San Jorge, the company rode out, under command
of the sergeant, to gather forage for the animals. In order to give my own mule a respite,
I mounted for this occasion a bad-winded animal, long before used up, and discarded by one
of the company, and left to run about the yard. As we rode out at the gateway, one of the men
advised me with some pointedness to go back and get my own animal, assuring me the one I had
would fail me on this expedition. Yet, knowing he was good for the distance we usually rode
foraging, I paid him no heed, and thought nothing of his somewhat singular manner until afterwards.
When we had gone some distance, the same man asked me if I had heard that forty deserters had
left last night for Costa Rica, adding, that it was his opinion the whole army would soon be
on the same road. "Well," said I, "I suppose we'll be among the last." "I don't think I will,"
rejoined he, "nor the rest of this company." He said no more; but it flashed upon me then that
we were even now on the road for Costa Rica; and it soon became certainty, as the sergeant
turned down toward the Transit road, a direction in which we had never been allowed to forage,
probably because the natives on that side had more communication with San Juan and Virgin Bay,
and General Walker was unwilling that the States passengers should hear too many complaints
from them. I was before aware that many of the company had been for some time revolving desertion,
and had myself been sounded by one a day or two previously; but could have had no suspicion
that this was to be the occasion, because several of the most forward in the matter had made
excuses, and remained behind in quarters.

At length we halted in a little stream, some miles from Rivas, to water our animals, and it
was here openly announced that the party was on its way to Costa Rica to take the benefit of
the government proclamation. I rode back toward the rear, where I saw a dispute going on between
one of the company who wanted to return to Rivas and others who insisted that he must go forward.
One of them met me in the path, and told me I must go with them until they had got beyond the
Transit road. They had no wish, he said, to force men to desert; but this much was needed to
save themselves from danger of pursuit. I told him my mule would never carry me back from the
Transit road. "We will catch you another," said he, "when we reach the Jocote rancho." The
whole crowd, save two or three, were with him, and it was useless to persist. So I turned and
rode forward with the rest.

At the Jocote rancho we succeeded in catching a mule, but he was given to another of the company,
whose animal showed worse signs than my own, which, indeed, had borne me much better than I
expected, and was not yet seriously fatigued.

We came out upon the Transit road, passed over the Cordillera ridges, and, just beyond the
little river which crosses the road, two miles from San Juan, turned aside into a forest-trail
leading down the coast to Costa Rica. Those of us who had been pressed thus far, after crossing
the Transit road, gave over all design of returning. The bonds which drew us back were not
strong, and the danger of return was considerable. We had heard that the enemy was at Virgin
Bay, and that their lancers frequently passed backward and forward on the Transit road, and
between San Jorge and Virgin Bay. If we returned, we should be confined to the path nearly
all the way to Rivas by the impenetrable forest, and easily taken, should we meet the enemy,
or liable even, one or two only, to be shot down from ambush by the hostile natives who lived
on the route.

For my own part, I decided to go on with hesitation and regret, and I believe, had one been
ready to return, I should have borne him willing company. I preferred even the hard service
and dubious chance of General Walker to the alternative of going amongst the Costa-Ricans,
where a cowardly populace would probably kick and spit upon us as dirty filibusters and deserters;
and should their government even keep its promises, I had no stomach for being set ashore in
the city of New York, without money in my pocket, or home that I wished to go to. My health
had been good in Nicaragua, and, I believed, would remain good. The motive which sent me there
was still in force; and, withal, I wished to see the filibuster game played out,--with Henningsen,
or some other man than General Walker, as military director. I believed it might even take
a turn so, and a sans-culotte man be furnished at last with a two-hundred-and-fifty-acre home
in Nicaragua,--

  "'Mid sandal bowers and groves of spice,
  Might be a Peri's paradise";

and plantain food without sweat, and the elixir of joy called aguardiente! Nevertheless it
was all left behind; and Samuel Absalom tore the large, dirty canvas letters M.R., signifying
Mounted Ranger, off from his blue flannel shirt-breast; and his experience as filibuster in
Nicaragua closed,--somewhat ingloriously.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBA DI ROMA.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER V.

CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.

The Christmas Holidays have come, and with them various customs and celebrations quite peculiar
to Rome. They are ushered in by the festive clang of a thousand bells from all the belfries
in Rome at Ave Maria of the evening before the august day. At about nine o'clock of the same
evening the Pope performs High Mass in some one of the great churches, generally at Santa Maria
Maggiore, when all the pillars of this fine old basilica are draped with red hangings, and
scores of candles burn in the side chapels, and the great altar blazes with light. The fuguing
chants of the Papal choir sound into the dome and down the aisles, while the Holy Father ministers
at the altar, and a motley crowd parade and jostle and saunter through the church. Here, mingled
together, may be seen soldiers of the Swiss guard, with their shining helmets, long halberds,
and party-colored uniforms, designed by Michel Angelo,--chamberlains of the Pope, all in black,
with their high ruffs, Spanish cloaks, silken stockings, and golden chains,--contadini from
the mountains, in their dully brilliant costumes and white tovaglie,--common laborers from
the Campagna, with their black mops of tangled hair,--forestieri of every nation,--Englishmen,
with long, light, pendant whiskers, and an eye-glass stuck in one eye,--Germans, with spectacles,
frogged coats, and long, straight hair put behind their ears and cut square in the neck,--then
Americans, in high-heeled patent-leather boots, a black dress-coat, and a black satin waistcoat,--and
wasp-waisted French officers, with baggy trousers, a goat-beard, and a pretentious swagger.
Nearer the altar are crowded together in pens a mass of women in black dresses and black veils,
who are determined to see and hear all, treating the ceremony purely as a spectacle, and not
as a religious rite. Meantime the music soars, the organ groans, the censer clicks, steams
of incense float to and fro. The Pope and his attendants kneel and rise,--he lifts the Host,
and the world prostrates itself. A great procession of dignitaries with torches bears a fragment
of the original cradle of the Holy Bambino from its chapel to the high altar, through the swaying
crowd that gape and gaze and stare and sneer and adore. And thus the evening passes. When the
clock strikes midnight all the bells ring merrily, Mass commences at the principal churches,
and at San Luigi dei Francesi and the Gesù there is a great illumination (what the French call
un joli spectacle) and very good music. Thus Christmas is ushered in at Rome.

The next day is a great festa. All classes are dressed in their best and go to Mass,--and when
that is over, they throng the streets to chat and lounge and laugh and look at each other.
The Corso is so crowded in the morning, that a carriage can scarcely pass. Everywhere one hears
the pleasant greeting of "Buona Festa," "Buona Pasquà." All the basso popolo, too, are out,--the
women wearing their best jewelry, heavy gold ear-rings, three-rowed collane of well-worn coral
and gold, long silver and gold pins and arrows in their hair, and great worked brooches with
pendants,--and the men of the Trastevere in their peaked hats, their short jackets swung over
one shoulder in humble imitation of the Spanish cloak, and with rich scarfs tied round their
waists. Most of the ordinary cries of the day are missed. But the constant song of "Arancie!
arancie dolci!" is heard in the crowd; and everywhere are the sigarari, carrying round their
wooden tray of tobacco, and shouting, "Sigari! sigari dolci! sigari scelti!" at the top of
their lungs; the nocellaro also cries sadly about his dry chestnuts and pumpkin-seeds. The
shops are all closed, and the shopkeepers and clerks saunter up and down the streets, dressed
better than the same class anywhere else in the world,--looking spick-and-span, as if they
had just come out of a bandbox, and nearly all of them carrying a little cane. One cannot but
be struck by the difference in this respect between the Romans on a festa-day in the Corso
and the Parisians during fête in the Champs Élysées,--the former are so much better dressed,
and so much happier, gayer, and handsomer.

During the morning, the Pope celebrates High Mass at San Pietro, and thousands of spectators
are there,--some from curiosity, some from piety. Few, however, of the Roman families go there
to-day;--they perform their religious services in their private chapel or in some minor church;
for the crowd of forestieri spoils St. Peter's for prayer.[A] At the elevation of the Host,
the guards, who line the nave, drop to their knees, their side-arms ringing on the pavement,--the
vast crowd bends,--and a swell of trumpets sounds through the dome. Nothing can be more impressive
than this moment in St. Peter's. Then the choir from its gilt cage resumes its chant, the high
falsetti of the soprani soaring over the rest, and interrupted now and then by the clear musical
voice of the Pope,--until at last he is borne aloft in his Papal chair on the shoulders of
his attendants, crowned with the triple crown, between the high, white, waving fans; all the
cardinals, monsignori, canonici, officials, priests, and guards going before him in splendid
procession. The Pope shuts his eyes, from giddiness and from fasting,--for he has eaten nothing
for twenty-four hours, and the swaying motion of the chair makes him dizzy and sick. But he
waves at intervals his three fingers to bless the crowd that kneel or bend before him, and
then goes home to the Vatican to dine with a clean conscience and a good appetite.

[Footnote A: "How," says Marforio to Pasquino, "shall I, being a true son of the Holy Church,
obtain admittance to her services?" To which Pasquino returns for answer: "Declare that you
are an Englishman, and swear that you are a heretic."]

It is the universal rule among priests to fast before saying Mass, and never to take the wafer
or body of Christ upon a full stomach. The law is de rigueur, and is almost never broken. But
sometimes the temptation of the appetite, it may be supposed, will overcome even a pious man;
for priest though one be, one is also flesh-and-blood. An anecdote lately told me by the Conte
Cignale (dei Selvaggi) may not be out of place in this connection, and I instance it as an
undoubted exception to the general rule. A friend of his, an English artist, enamored of Italian
life, was spending the summer in one of the mountain towns. Finding little society there except
the physician and the parish priest, he soon became on intimate terms with them. One morning
the priest called on him before he had finished breakfast. A savory dish was smoking on the
table, and the fumes of the hot coffee filled the room. "I wish you could take breakfast with
me," said he; "but I know you are to say Mass, and that it would be contrary to rule for you
to eat until it is performed." The priest shrugged his shoulders and looked deprecatorily at
the artist and at the breakfast. "Still," continued the latter, "if your scruples would allow
you, I should be delighted if you would help me with this capital dish." The temptation was
great; the smell was savory. The priest made a strong internal defence, but the garrison was
forced at last to capitulate. "Eh!" said he, as he took his seat, "in fatto è il costume generale
di non mangiare prima di dire la messa e di prendere l'ostia. Ma--in queste circostanze,"--here
he looked to see that the door was well fastened,--"mi pare che si potrebbe far un letto per
nostro Signore, Gesù Cristo."

It is the custom in Rome at the great festas, of which Christmas is one of the principal ones,
for each parish to send round the sacrament to all its sick; and during these days a procession
of priest and attendants may be seen, preceded by their cross and banner, bearing the holy
wafer to the various houses. As they march along, they make the streets resound with the psalm
they sing. Everybody lifts his hat as they pass, and many among the lower classes kneel upon
the pavement. Frequently the procession is followed by a rout of men, women, and children,
who join in the chanting and responses, pausing with the priest before the door of the sick
person, and accompanying it as it moves from house to house.

At Christmas, all the Roman world which has a baiocco in its pocket eats torone and pan giallo.
The shops of the pastry-cooks and confectioners are filled with them, mountains of them incumber
the counters, and for days before Christmas crowds of purchasers throng to buy them. Torone
is a sort of hard candy, made of honey and almonds, and crusted over with crystallized sugar;
or in other words, it is a nuga with a sweet frieze coat;--but nuga is a trifle to it for consistency.
Pan giallo is perhaps so called quasi lucus, it being neither bread nor yellow. I know no way
of giving a clearer notion of it than by saying that its father is almond-candy and its mother
a plum-pudding. It partakes of the qualities of both its parents. From its mother it inherits
plums and citron, while its father bestows upon it almonds and consistency. In hardness of
character it is half-way between the two,--having neither the maternal tenderness on the one
hand, nor the paternal stoniness on the other. One does not break one's teeth on it as over
the torone, which is only to be cajoled into masticability by prolonged suction, and often
not then; but the teeth sink into it as the wagoner's wheels into clayey mire, and every now
and then receive a shock, as from sunken rocks, from the raisin-stones, indurated almonds,
pistachio-nuts, and pine-seeds, which startle the ignorant and innocent eater with frightful
doubts. I carried away one tooth this year over my first piece; but it was a tooth which had
been considerably indebted to California, and I have forgiven the pan giallo. My friend the
Conte Cignale, who partook at the same time of torone, having incautiously put a large lump
into his mouth, found himself compromised thereby to such an extent as to be at once reduced
to silence and retirement behind his pocket-handkerchief. An unfortunate jest, however, reduced
him to extremities, and, after a vehement struggle for politeness, he was forced to open the
window and give his torone to the pavement--and the little boys, perhaps. Chi sa? But, despite
these dangers and difficulties, all the world at Rome eats pan giallo and torone at Christmas,--and
a Christmas without them would be an egg without salt. They are at once a penance and a pleasure.
Not content with the pan giallo, the Romans also import the pan forte di Siena, which is a
blood cousin of the former, and suffers almost nothing from time and age.

On Christmas and New Year's day all the servants of your friends present themselves at your
door to wish you a "buona festa," or a "buon capo d'anno." This generous expression of good
feeling is, however, expected to be responded to by a more substantial expression on your part,
in the shape of four or five pauls, so that one peculiarly feels the value of a large visiting-list
of acquaintances at this season. To such an extent is this practice carried, that in the houses
of the cardinals and princes places are sought by servants merely for the vails of the festas,
no other wages being demanded. Especially is this the case with the higher dignitaries of the
Church, whose maestro di casa, in hiring domestics, takes pains to point out to them the advantages
of their situation in this respect. Lest the servants should not be aware of all these advantages,
the times when such requisitions may be gracefully made and the sums which may be levied are
carefully indicated,--not by the cardinal in person, of course, but by his underlings; and
many of the fellows who carry the umbrella and cling to the back of the cardinal's coach, covered
with shabby gold-lace and carpet-collars, and looking like great beetles, are really paid by
everybody rather than the padrone they serve. But this is not confined to the Eminenze, many
of whom are, I dare say, wholly ignorant that such practices exist. The servants of the embassies
and all the noble houses also make the circuit of the principal names on the visiting-list,
at stated occasions, with good wishes for the family. If one rebel, little care will be taken
that letters, cards, and messages arrive promptly at their destination in the palaces of their
padroni; so it is a universal habit to thank them for their politeness, and to request them
to do you the favor to accept a piece of silver in order to purchase a bottle of wine and drink
your health. I never knew one of them refuse; probably they would not consider it polite to
do so. It is curious to observe the care with which at the embassies a new name is registered
by the servants, who scream it from anteroom to salon, and how considerately a deputation waits
on you at Christmas and New Year's, or, indeed, whenever you are about to leave Rome to take
your villeggiatura, for the purpose of conveying to you the good wishes of the season or of
invoking for you a "buon viaggio." One young Roman, a teacher of languages, told me that it
cost him annually some twenty scudi or more, to convey to the servants of his pupils and others
his deep sense of the honor they did him in inquiring for his health at stated times. But this
is a rare case, and owing, probably, to his peculiar position. A physician in Rome, whom I
had occasion to call in for a slight illness, took an opportunity on his first visit to put
a very considerable buona mano into the hands of my servant, in order to secure future calls.
I cannot, however, say that this is customary; on the contrary, it is the only case I know,
though I have had other Roman physicians; and this man was in his habits and practice peculiarly
un-Roman. I do not believe it, therefore, to be a Roman trait. On the other hand, I must say,
for my servant's credit, that he told me the fact with a shrug, and added, that he could not,
after all, recommend the gentleman as a medico, though I was padrone, of course, to do as I liked.

On Christmas Eve, a Presepio is exhibited in several of the churches. The most splendid is
that of the Ara Celi, where the miraculous Bambino is kept. It lasts from Christmas to Twelfth
Night, during which period crowds of people flock to see it; and it well repays a visit. The
simple meaning of the term Presepio is a manger, but it is also used in the Church to signify
a representation of the birth of Christ. In the Ara Celi the whole of one of the side-chapels
is devoted to this exhibition. In the foreground is a grotto, in which is seated the Virgin
Mary, with Joseph at her side and the miraculous Bambino in her lap. Immediately behind are
an ass and an ox. On one side kneel the shepherds and kings in adoration; and above, God the
Father is seen surrounded by clouds of cherubs and angels playing on instruments, as in the
early pictures of Raphael. In the background is a scenic representation of a pastoral landscape,
on which all the skill of the scene-painter is expended. Shepherds guard their flocks far away,
reposing under palm-trees or standing on green slopes which glow in the sunshine. The distances
and perspective are admirable. In the middle ground is a crystal fountain of glass, near which
sheep, preternaturally white, and made of real wool and cotton-wool, are feeding, tended by
figures of shepherds carved in wood. Still nearer come women bearing great baskets of real
oranges and other fruits on their heads. All the nearer figures are full-sized, carved in wood,
painted, and dressed in appropriate robes. The miraculous Bambino is a painted doll swaddled
in a white dress, which is crusted over with magnificent diamonds, emeralds, and rubies. The
Virgin also wears in her ears superb diamond pendants. Joseph has none; but he is not a person
peculiarly respected in the Church. As far as the Virgin and Child are concerned, they are
so richly dressed that the presents of the kings and wise men seem rather supererogatory,--like
carrying coals to Newcastle,--unless, indeed, Joseph come in for a share, as it is to be hoped
he does. The general effect of this scenic show is admirable, and crowds flock to it and press
about it all day long. Mothers and fathers are lifting their little children as high as they
can, and until their arms are ready to break; little maids are pushing, whispering, and staring
in great delight; contadini are gaping at it with a mute wonderment of admiration and devotion;
and Englishmen are discussing loudly the value of the jewels, and wanting to know, by Jove,
whether those in the crown can be real.

While this is taking place on one side of the church, on the other is a very different and
quite as singular an exhibition. Around one of the antique columns of this basilica--which
once beheld the splendors and crimes of the Caesars' palace--a staging is erected, from which
little maidens are reciting, with every kind of pretty gesticulation, sermons, dialogues, and
speechifications, in explanation of the Presepio opposite. Sometimes two of them are engaged
in alternate question and answer about the mysteries of the Incarnation and the Redemption.
Sometimes the recitation is a piteous description of the agony of the Saviour and the sufferings
of the Madonna,--the greatest stress being, however, always laid upon the latter. All these
little speeches have been written for them by their priest or some religious friend, been committed
to memory, and practised with the appropriate gestures over and over again at home. Their little
piping voices are sometimes guilty of such comic breaks and changes, that the crowd about them
rustles into a murmurous laughter. Sometimes also one of the very little preachers has a dispitto,
pouts, shakes her shoulders, and refuses to go on with her part;--another, however, always
stands ready on the platform to supply the vacancy, until friends have coaxed, reasoned, or
threatened the little pouter into obedience. These children are often very beautiful and graceful,
and their comical little gestures and intonations, their clasping of hands and rolling up of
eyes, have a very amusing and interesting effect. The last time I was there, I was sorry to
see that the French costume had begun to make its appearance. Instead of the handsome Roman
head, with its dark, shining, braided hair, which is so elegant when uncovered, I saw on two
of the children the deforming bonnet, which could have been invented only to conceal a defect,
and which is never endurable, unless it be perfectly fresh, delicate, and costly. Nothing is
so vulgar as a shabby bonnet. Yet the Romans, despite their dislike of the French, are beginning
to wear it. Ten years ago it did not exist here among the common people. I know not why it
is that the three ugliest pieces of costume ever invented, the dress-coat, the trousers, and
the bonnet, all of which we owe to the French, have been accepted all over Europe, to the exclusion
of every national costume. Certainly it is not because they are either useful, elegant, or
commodious.[B]

[Footnote B: That cultivated gentleman, John Evelyn, two centuries ago wrote some amusing words
on this subject. After quoting the witty saying of Malvezzi,--"I vestimenti negli animali sono
molto securi segni della loro natura, negli nomini del lor cervello,"--he goes on to say, "Be
it excusable in the French to alter and impose the mode on others, 'tis no less a weakness
and a shame in the rest of the world, who have no dependence on them, to admit them, at least
to that degree of levity as to turn into all their shapes without discrimination; so as when
the freak takes our Monsieurs to appear like so many farces or Jack Puddings on the stage,
all the world should alter shape and play the pantomimes with them. Methinks a French tailor,
with an ell in his hand, looks like the enchantress Circe over the companions of Ulysses, and
changes them into as many forms.... Something I would indulge to youth; something to age and
humor. But what have we to do with these foreign butterflies? In God's name, let the change
be our own, not borrowed of others; for why should I dance after a Monsieur's flageolet, that
have a set of English viols for my concert? We need no French inventions for the stage or for
the back."--From a pamphlet entitled Tyrannus, or the Mode.

"Si le costume bourgeois," says George Sand, in Le Péché de M. Antoine, "de notre époque est
le plus triste, le plus incommode et le plus disgracieux, que la mode ait jamais inventé, c'est
surtout au milieu des champs que tous ses inconvénients et toutes ses laideurs révoltent....
Au milieu de ce cadre austère et grandiose, qui transporte l'imagination au temps de la poésie
primitive, apparaisse cette mouche parasite, le monsieur aux habits noirs, au menton rasé,
aux mains gantées, aux jambes maladroites, et ce roi de la société n'est plus qu'un accident
ridicule, une tâche importune dans le tableau. Votre costume gênant et disparate inspire alors
la pitié plus que les haillons du pauvre, on sent que vous êtes déplacé au grand air, et que
votre livrée vous écrase."]

If one visit the Ara Celi during the afternoon of one of these festas, the scene is very striking.
The flight of one hundred and twenty-four steps, which once led to the temple of Venus and
Rome, is then thronged by merchants of Madonna wares, who spread them out over the steps and
hang them against the walls and balustrades. Here are to be seen all sorts of curious little
colored prints of the Madonna and Child of the most ordinary quality, little bags, pewter medals,
and crosses stamped with the same figures and to be worn on the neck,--all offered at once
for the sum of one baiocco. Here also are framed pictures of the Saints, of the Nativity, and,
in a word, of all sorts of religious subjects appertaining to the season. Little wax dolls,
clad in cotton-wool to represent the Saviour, and sheep made of the same materials, are also
sold by the basketful. Children and contadine are busy buying them, and there is a deafening
roar all up and down the steps of "Mezzo baiocco, bello colorito, mezzo baiocco, la Santissima
Concezione Incoronata,"--"Diario Romano, Lunario Romano Nuovo,"--"Ritratto colorito, medaglia
e quadruccio, un baiocco tutti, un baiocco tutti,"--"Bambinelli di cera, un baiocco."[C] None
of the prices are higher than one baiocco, except to strangers,--and generally several articles
are held up together, enumerated, and proffered with a loud voice for this sum. Meanwhile men,
women, children, priests, beggars, soldiers, and villani are crowding up and down, and we crowd
with them.

[Footnote C: "A half-baiocco, beautifully colored,--a half-baiocco, the Holy Conception Crowned."
"Roman Diary,--New Roman Almanac." "Colored portrait, medal, and little picture, one baiocco,
all." "Little children in wax, one baiocco."]

At last, ascending, we reach the door which faces towards the west. We lift the great leathern
curtain and push into the church. A faint perfume of incense salutes the nostrils. The golden
sunset bursts in as the curtain sways forward, illuminates the mosaic floor, catches on the
rich golden ceiling, and flashes here and there over the crowd on some brilliant costume or
shaven head. All sorts of people are thronging there,--some kneeling before the shrine of the
Madonna, which gleams with its hundreds of silver votive hearts, legs, and arms,--some listening
to the preaching,--some crowding round the chapel of the Presepio,--old women, haggard and
wrinkled, come tottering along with their scaldini of coals, drop down on their knees to pray,
and, as you pass, interpolate in their prayers a parenthesis of begging. The church is not
architecturally handsome; but it is eminently picturesque, with its relics of centuries, its
mosaic pulpits and floor, its frescoes of Pinturicchio and Pesaro, its antique columns, its
rich golden ceiling, its Gothic mausoleum to the Savelli, and its medieval tombs. A dim, dingy
look is over all,--but it is the dimness of faded splendor; and one cannot stand there, knowing
the history of the church, its exceeding antiquity, and the changes it has undergone since
it was a Roman temple, without a peculiar sense of interest and pleasure.

It was here that Romulus, in the gray dawning of Rome, built the temple of Jupiter Feretrius.
Here the spolia opima were deposited. Here the triumphal processions of the Emperors and generals
ended. Here the victors paused before making their vows, until the message came from the Mamertine
Prisons below to announce that their noblest prisoner and victim, while the clang of their
triumph and his defeat rose ringing in his ears as the procession ascended the steps, had expiated
with death the crime of being the enemy of Rome. Over these very steps,--nineteen centuries
ago, the first great Caesar climbed on his knees after his first triumph. At their base, Rienzi,
"last of the Roman tribunes," fell. And, if the tradition of the Church is to be trusted, it
was on the site of the present high altar that Augustus erected the "Ara primogenito Dei" to
commemorate the Delphic prophecy of the coming of our Saviour. Standing on a spot so thronged
with memories, the dullest imagination takes fire. The forms and scenes of the past rise from
their graves and pass before us, and the actual and visionary are mingled together in strange
poetic confusion. Truly, as Walpole says, "memory sees more than our eyes in this country."

And this is one great charm of Rome,--that it animates the dead figures of its history. On
the spot where they lived and acted, the Caesars change from the manikins of books to living
men; and Virgil, Horace, and Cicero grow to be realities, as we walk down the Sacred Way and
over the very pavement they may once have trod. The conversations "De Claris Oratoribus" and
the "Tusculan Questions" seem like the talk of the last generation, as we wander on the heights
of Tusculum, or over the grounds of that charming villa on the banks of the Liris, which the
great Roman orator so graphically describes in his treatise "De Legibus." The landscape of
Horace has not changed. Could one better his compliment to any Roman Lalage of to-day than
to call her "dulce ridentem"? In all its losses, Rome has not lost the sweet smile of its people.
Would you like to know the modern rules for agriculture in Rome, read the "Georgics"; there
is so little to alter, that it is not worth mentioning. So, too, at Rome, the Emperors become
as familiar as the Popes. Who does not know the curly-headed Marcus Aurelius, with his lifted
brow and projecting eyes, from the full, round beauty of his youth to the more haggard look
of his latest years? Are there any modern portraits more familiar than the pensive, wedge-like
head of Augustus, with his sharp-cut lips and nose,--or the dull phiz of Hadrian, with his
hair combed down over his low forehead,--or the vain, perking face of Lucius Verus, with his
thin nose, low brow, and profusion of curls,--or the brutal bull head of Caracalla,--or the
bestial, bloated features of Vitellius?

These men, who were but lay-figures to us at school, mere pegs of names to hang historic robes
upon, thus interpreted by the living history of their portraits, the incidental illustrations
of the places where they lived and moved and died, and the buildings and monuments they erected,
become like the men of yesterday. Art has made them our contemporaries. They are as near to
us as Pius VII. and Napoleon. I never drive out of the old Nomentan Gate without remembering
the ghastly flight of Nero,--his recognition there by an old centurion,--his damp, drear hiding-place
underground, where, shuddering and quoting Greek, he waited for his executioners,--and his
subsequent terrible and cowardly death, as narrated by Tacitus and Suetonius; and it seems
nearer to me, more vivid, and more actual, than the death of Rossi in the court of the Cancelleria.
I never drive by the Caesars' palaces, without recalling the ghastly jest of Tiberius, when
he sent for some fifteen of the Senators at dead of night and commanded their presence; and
when they, trembling with fear, and expecting nothing less than that their heads were all to
fall, had been kept waiting for an hour, the door opened, and he, nearly naked, appeared with
a fiddle in his hand, and, after fiddling and dancing to his quaking audience for an hour,
dismissed them to their homes uninjured. The air seems to keep a sort of spiritual scent or
trail of these old deeds, and to make them more real here than elsewhere. The old horrors of
the Amphitheatre can be made real to any person of imaginative mind in the Colosseum. He has
but to lend himself to the contagion of the place, and he will see the circle of ten thousand
eager eyes thirsting for his blood, fill up the ruined benches and arched tiers as of yore,
and hear the savage murmur of human voices, worse than the dull roar of the beasts below. The
past still lives in these old walls. It is in vain to say that the ghosts of history do not
haunt their ancient habitations. Places, as well as persons, have lives and influences; and
the horror of murder will not away from a spot. Haunted by its crimes, oppressed and debilitated
by the fierce excesses of its Empire, Rome, silent, grave, and meditative, sighs over its past,
wrapped in the penitent robes of the Church.

Besides, here one feels that the modern Romans are only the children of their ancient fathers,
with the same characteristics,--softened, indeed, and worn down by time, just as the sharp
traits of the old marbles have worn away; but still the same people,--proud, passionate, lazy,
jealous, vindictive, easy, patient, and able. The Popes are but Church pictures of the Emperors,--a
different robe, but the same nature beneath;--Alexander the VI. was but a second Tiberius--Pius
the VII., a modern Augustus. When I speak of the Roman people, I do not mean the class of hangers-on
upon the foreigners, but the Trasteverini and the inhabitants of the provinces and mountains.
No one can go through the Trastevere when the people are roused, without feeling that they
are the same as those who listened to Marcus Antonius and Brutus, when the bier of Caesar was
brought into the streets,--and as those who fought with the Colonna and stabbed Rienzi at the
foot of the Capitol steps. The Ciceruacchio of '48 was but an ancient Tribune of the People,
in the primitive sense of that title. I like, too, to parallel the anecdote of Caius Marius,
when, after his ruin, he concealed himself in the marshes, and astonished his captors, who
expected to find him weak of heart, by the magnificent self-assertion of "I am Caius Marius,"
with the story which is told of Stefano Colonna. After this great captain met with his sad
reverses, and, deprived of all his possessions, fled from Rome, an attendant asked him,--"What
fortress have you now?" He placed his hand on his heart and answered,--"Eccola!" The same blood
evidently ran in the veins of both these men; and well might Petrarca call Colonna "a phoenix
risen from the ashes of the ancient Romans."

But, somehow or other, I have wandered strangely from my subject. Scusi,--but what has all
this to do with the Bambino?

The Santissimo Bambino is a very round-faced and expressionless doll, carved, as the legend
goes, from a tree on the Mount of Olives, by a Franciscan pilgrim, and painted by Saint Luke
while the pilgrim slept. It is difficult to say which was the worse artist of the two, the
sculptor or the painter. But Saint Luke's pictures generally do not give us a high idea of
his skill as a painter. The legend is a charming anachronism, unless, indeed, Saint Luke was
only a spiritual presence;--but, as the whole incident was miraculous, the greater the anachronism,
the greater the miracle. The Bambino, however he came into existence, is invested, according
to the assertions of priests and the belief of the common people, with wonderful powers in
curing the sick; and his practice is as lucrative as any physician's in Rome. His aid is in
constant requisition in severe cases, and certain it is that a cure not unfrequently follows
upon his visit; but as the regular physicians always cease their attendance upon his entrance,
and blood-letting and calomel are consequently intermitted, perhaps the cure is not so miraculous
as it might at first seem. He is borne by the priests in state to his patients; and during
the Triumvirate of '49, the Pope's carriage was given to him and his attendants. I was assured
by the priest who exhibited him to me at the church, that, on one occasion, having been stolen
by some irreverent hand from his ordinary abiding-place in one of the side-chapels, he returned
alone, by himself, at night, to console his guardians and to resume his functions. Great honors
are paid to him. He wears jewels which a Colonna might envy, and not a square inch of his body
is without a splendid gem. On festal occasions, like Christmas, he wears a coronet as brilliant
as the triple crown of the Pope, and, lying in the Madonna's arms in the representation of
the Nativity, he is adored by the people until Epiphany. Then, after the performance of Mass,
a procession of priests, accompanied by a band of music, makes the tour of the church and proceeds
to the chapel of the Presepio, where the bishop, with great solemnity, removes him from his
Mother's arms. At this moment, the music bursts forth into a triumphant march, a jubilant strain
over the birth of Christ, and he is borne through the doors of the church to the great steps.
There the bishop elevates the Holy Bambino before the crowds who throng the steps, and they
fall upon their knees. This is thrice repeated, and the wonderful image is then conveyed to
its original chapel, and the ceremony is over.

The Eve of Epiphany, or Twelfth-Night, is to the children of Rome what Christmas Eve is to
us. It is then that the Bifana comes with her presents. This personage is neither merry nor
male, like Santa Claus, nor beautiful and childlike, like Christ-kindchen,--but is described
as a very tall, dark woman, ugly, and rather terrible, "d' una fisionomia piuttosto imponente"
who comes down the chimney, on the Eve of Epiphany, armed with a long canna and shaking a bell,
to put playthings into the stockings of the good children, and bags of ashes into those of
the bad. It is a night of fearful joy for all the little ones. When they hear her bell ring,
they shake in their sheets; for the Bifana is used as a threat to the wilful, and their hope
is tempered by a wholesome apprehension. It is supposed to be a distorted image of the visit
of the kings and wise men with their presents at the Nativity, as Santa Claus may be of the
shepherds, and the Christ-kindchen of Christ himself. However this may be, it is curious to
observe the different characters this superstition assumes among different nations and under
different influences.

The great festival of the Bifana (a corruption, undoubtedly, of Epifania) takes place on the
Eve of Twelfth-Night, in the Piazza di San Eustachio,--and a curious spectacle it is. The Piazza
itself, (which is situated in the centre of the city, just beyond the Pantheon,) and all the
adjacent streets, are lined with booths covered with every kind of plaything for children.
Most of these are of Roman make, very rudely fashioned, and very cheap; but for those who have
longer purses, there are not wanting heaps of German and French toys. These booths are gayly
illuminated with rows of candles and the three-wicked brass lucerne of Rome; and, at intervals,
painted posts are set into the pavement, crowned with pans of grease, with a wisp of tow for
wick, which blaze and flare about. Besides these, numbers of torches carried about by hand
lend a wavering and picturesque light to the scene. By eight o'clock in the evening, crowds
begin to fill the Piazza and the adjacent streets. Long before one arrives, the squeak of penny-trumpets
is heard at intervals; but in the Piazza itself the mirth is wild and furious, and the din
that salutes one's ears on entering is almost deafening. The object of every one is to make
as much noise as possible, and every kind of instrument for this purpose is sold at the booths.
There are drums beating, tamburelli thumping and jingling, pipes squeaking, watchmen's-rattles
clacking, penny-trumpets and tin horns shrilling, and the sharpest whistles shrieking everywhere.
Besides this, there are the din of voices, screams of laughter, and the confused burr and buzz
of a great crowd. On all sides you are saluted by the strangest noises. Instead of being spoken
to, you are whistled at. Companies of people are marching together in platoons, or piercing
through the crowd in long files, and dancing and blowing like mad on their instruments. It
is a perfect witches' Sabbath. Here, huge dolls dressed as Polichinello or Pantaloon are borne
about for sale,--or over the heads of the crowd great black-faced jumping-jacks, lifted on
a stick, twitch themselves in fantastic fits,--or, what is more Roman than all, men carry about
long poles strung with rings of hundreds of giambelli, (a light cake, called jumble in English,)
which they scream for sale at a mezzo baiocco each. There is no alternative but to get a drum,
whistle, or trumpet, and join in the racket,--and to fill one's pockets with toys for the children
and absurd presents for one's older friends. The moment you are once in for it, and making
as much noise as you can, you begin to relish the jest. The toys are very odd,--particularly
the Roman whistles;--some of these are made of pewter, with a little wheel that whirls as you
blow; others are of terra-cotta, very rudely modelled into every shape of bird, beast, and
human deformity, each with a whistle in its head, breast, or tail, which it is no joke to hear,
when blown close to your ears by a stout pair of lungs. The scene is very picturesque. Above,
the dark vault of night, with its far stars, the blazing and flaring of lights below, and the
great, dark walls of the Sapienza and Church looking grimly down upon the mirth. Everywhere
in the crowd are the glistening helmets of soldiers, who are mixing in the sport, and the chapeaux
of white-strapped gendarmes, standing at intervals to keep the peace. At about half-past eleven
o'clock the theatres are emptied, and the upper classes flock to the Piazza. I have never been
there later than half-past twelve, but the riotous fun still continued at that hour; and, for
a week afterwards, the squeak of whistles may be heard at intervals in the streets.

At the two periods of Christmas and Easter, the young Roman girls take their first communion.
The former, however, is generally preferred, as it is a season of rejoicing in the Church,
and the ceremonies are not so sad as at Easter. In entering upon this religious phase of their
life, it is their custom to retire to a convent, and pass a week in prayer and reciting the
offices of the Church. During this period, no friend, not even their parents, are allowed to
visit them, and information as to their health and condition is very reluctantly and sparingly
given at the door. In case of illness, the physician of the convent is called; and even then
neither parent is allowed to see them, except, perhaps, in very severe cases. Of course, during
their stay in the convent, every exertion is made by the sisters to render a monastic life
agreeable, and to stimulate the religious sensibilities of the young communicant. The pleasures
of society and the world are decried, and the charms of peace, devotion, and spiritual exercises
eulogized, until the excited imagination of the communicant leaves her no rest, before she
has returned to the convent and taken the veil as a nun. The happiness of families is thus
sometimes destroyed; and I knew one very united and pleasant Roman family which in this way
was sadly broken up. Two of three sisters were so worked upon at their first communion, that
the prayers of family and friends proved unavailing to retain them in their home. The more
they were urged to remain, the more they desired to go, and the parents, brothers, and remaining
sister were forced to yield a most reluctant consent. They retired into the convent and became
nuns. It was almost as if they had died. From that time forward, the home was no longer a home.
I saw them when they took the veil, and a sadder spectacle was not easily to be seen. The girls
were happy, but the parents and family wretched, and the parting was very tearful and sad.
They do not seem since to have regretted the step they then took; but regret would be unavailing--and
even if they felt it, they could scarcely show it. The occupation of the sisters in the monastery
they have joined is prayers, the offices of the Church, and, I believe, a little instruction
of poor children. But gossip among themselves, of the pettiest kind, must make up for the want
of wider worldly interests. In such limited relations, little jealousies engender great hypocrisies;
a restricted horizon enlarges small objects. The repressed heart and introverted mind, deprived
of their natural scope, consume themselves in self-consciousness, and duties easily degenerate
into routine. We are not all in all to ourselves; the world has claims upon us, which it is
cowardice to shrink from, and folly to deny. Self-forgetfulness is a great virtue, and selfishness
a great vice. After all, the best religious service is worthy occupation. Large interests keep
the heart sound; and the best of prayers is the doing of a good act with a pure purpose.

ABDEL-HASSAN.

  The compensations of calamity are made apparent after long intervals of
    time.
  The sure years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies all fact.
   --EMERSON.

  Abdel-Hassan o'er the Desert journeyed with his caravan,--
  Many a richly laden camel, many a faithful serving-man.

  And before the haughty master bowed alike the man and beast;
  For the power of Abdel-Hassan was the wonder of the East.

  It was now the twelfth day's journey, but its closing did not bring
  Abdel-Hassan and his servants to the long-expected spring.

  From the ancient line of travel they had wandered far away,
  And at evening, faint and weary, on a waste of Desert lay.

  Fainting men and famished camels stretched them round the master's tent;
  For the water-skins were empty, and the dates were nearly spent.

  All the night, as Abdel-Hassan on the Desert lay apart,
  Nothing broke the lifeless silence but the throbbing of his heart;

  All the night he heard it beating, while his sleepless, anxious eyes
  Watched the shining constellations wheeling onward through the skies.

  When the glowing orbs, receding, paled before the coming day,
  Abdel-Hassan called his servants and devoutly knelt to pray.

  Then his words were few and solemn to the leader of his train:--
  "Thirty men and eighty camels, Haroun, in thy care remain.

  "Keep the beasts and guard the treasure till the needed aid I bring.
  God is great! His name is mighty!--I, alone, will seek the spring."

  Mounted on his strongest camel, Abdel-Hassan rode away,
  While his faithful followers watched him passing, in the blaze of day,

  Like a speck upon the Desert, like a moving human hand,
  Where the fiery skies were sweeping down to meet the burning sand.

  Passed he then their far horizon, and beyond it rode alone;--
  They alone, with Arab patience, lay within its flaming zone.

  Day by day the servants waited, but the master never came,--
  Day by day, in feebler accents, called on Allah's holy name.

  One by one they killed the camels, loathing still the proffered food,
  But in weakness or in frenzy slaked their burning thirst in blood.

  On unheeded heaps of treasure rested each unconscious head;
  While, with pious care, the dying struggled to entomb the dead.

  So they perished. Gaunt with famine, still did Haroun's trusty hand
  For his latest dead companion scoop sepulture in the sand.

  Then he died; and pious Nature, where he lay so gaunt and grim,
  Moved by her divine compassion, did the same kind thing for him.

  Earth upon her burning bosom held him in his final rest,
  While the hot winds of the Desert piled the sand above his breast.--

  Onward in his fiery travel Abdel-Hassan held his way,
  Yielding to the camel's instinct, halting not, by night or day,

  'Till the faithful beast, exhausted in her fearful journey, fell,
  With her eye upon the palm-trees rising o'er the lonely well:

  With a faint, convulsive struggle, and a feeble moan, she died,
  While her still surviving master lay unconscious by her side.

  So he lay until the evening, when a passing caravan
  From the dead incumbering camel brought to life the dying man.

  Slowly murmured Abdel-Hassan, as they bathed his fainting head,
  "All is lost, for all have perished!--they are numbered with the dead!

  "I, who had such power and treasure but a single moon ago,
  Now my life and poor subsistence to a stranger's bounty owe.

  "God is great! His name is mighty! He is victor in the strife!
  Stripped of pride and power and substance, He hath left me faith
    and life."--

  Sixty years had Abdel-Hassan, since the stranger's friendly hand
  Saved him from the burning Desert, lived and prospered in the land;

  And his life of peaceful labor, in its pure and simple ways,
  For his loss fourfold returned him, and a mighty length of days.

  Sixty years of faith and patience gave him wisdom's mural crown;
  Sons and daughters brought him honor with his riches and renown.

  Men beheld his reverend aspect, and revered his blameless name;
  And in peace he dwelt with strangers, in the fulness of his fame.

  But the heart of Abdel-Hassan yearned, as yearns the heart of man,
  Still to die among his kindred, ending life where it began.

  So he summoned all his household, and he gave the brief command,--
  "Go and gather all our substance;--we depart from out the land."

  Then they journeyed to the Desert with a great and numerous train,
  To his old nomadic instinct trusting life and wealth again.

  It was now the sixth day's journey, when they met the moving sand,
  On the great wind of the Desert, driving o'er that arid land;

  And the air was red and fervid with the Simoom's fiery breath;--
  None could see his nearest fellow in the stifling blast of death.

  Blinded men from prostrate camels piled the stores to windward round,
  And within the barrier herded, on the hot, unstable ground.

  Two whole days the great wind lasted, when the living of the train
  From the hot drifts dug the camels and resumed their way again.

  But the lines of care grew deeper on the master's swarthy cheek,
  While around the weakest fainted and the strongest waxéd weak;

  And the water-skins were empty, and a silent murmur ran
  From the faint, bewildered servants through the straggling caravan:--

  "Let the land we left be blessed!--that to which we go, accurst!--
  From our pleasant wells of water came we here to die of thirst?"

  But the master stilled the murmur with his steadfast, quiet eye:--
  "God is great," he said, devoutly,--"when He wills it, we shall die."

  As he spake, he swept the Desert with his vision clear and calm,
  And along the far horizon saw the green crest of the palm.

  Man and beast, with weak steps quickened, hasted to the lonely well,
  And around it, faint and panting, in a grateful tumult fell.

  Many days they stayed and rested, and amidst his fervent prayer
  Abdel-Hassan pondered deeply that strange bond which held him there.

  Then there came an aged stranger, journeying with his caravan;
  And when each had each saluted, Abdel-Hassan thus began:--

  "Knowest thou this well of water? lies it on the travelled ways?"
  And he answered,--"From the highway thou art distant many days.

  "Where thou seest this well of water, where these thorns and
    palm-trees stand,
  Once the Desert swept unbroken in a waste of burning sand;

  "There was neither life nor herbage, not a drop of water lay,
  All along the arid valley where thou seest this well to-day.

  "Sixty years have wrought their changes since a man of wealth
    and pride,
  With his servants and his camels, here, amidst his riches, died.

  "As we journeyed o'er the Desert, dead beneath the blazing sky,
  Here I saw them, beasts and masters, in a common burial lie;

  "Thirty men and eighty camels did the shrouding sand infold;
  And we gathered up their treasure, spices, precious stones, and gold;

  "Then we heaped the sand above them, and, beneath the burning sun,
  With a friendly care we finished what the winds had well begun.

  "Still I hold that master's treasure, and his record, and his name;
  Long I waited for his kindred, but no kindred ever came.

  "Time, who beareth all things onward, hither bore our steps again,
  When around this spot were scattered whitened bones of beasts and men;

  "And from out the heaving hillocks of the mingled sand and mould
  Lo! the little palms were springing, which to-day are great and old.

  "From the shrubs we held the camels; for I felt that life of man,
  Breaking to new forms of being, through that tender herbage ran.

  "In the graves of men and camels long the dates unheeded lay,
  Till their germs of life commanded larger life from that decay;

  "And the falling dews, arrested, nourished every tender shoot,
  While beneath, the hidden moisture gathered to each wandering root.

  "So they grew; and I have watched them, as we journeyed, year by year;
  And we digged this well beneath them, where thou seest it, fresh and
    clear.

  "Thus from waste and loss and sorrow still are joy and beauty born,
  Like the fruitage of these palm-trees and the blossom of the thorn;

  "Life from death, and good from evil!--from that buried caravan
  Springs the life to save the living, many a weak, despairing man."

  As he ended, Abdel-Hassan, quivering through his aged frame,
  Asked, in accents slow and broken, "Knowest thou that master's name?"

  "He was known as Abdel-Hassan, famed for wealth and power and pride;
  But the proud have often fallen, and, as he, the great have died!"

  Then, upon the ground before them, prostrate Abdel-Hassan fell,
  With his aged hands extended, trembling, to the lonely well,--

  And the sacred soil beneath him cast upon his hoary head,--
  Named the servants and the camels,--summoned Haroun from the dead,--

  Clutched the unconscious palms around him, as if they were living men,--
  And before him, in their order, rose his buried train again.

  Moved by pity, spake the stranger, bending o'er him in his grief:--
  "What affects the man of sorrow? Speak,--for speaking is relief."

  Then he answered, rising slowly to that aged stranger's knee,--
  "Thou beholdest Abdel-Hassan! They were mine, and I am he!"

  Wondering, stood they all around him, and a reverent silence kept,
  While, amidst them, Abdel-Hassan lifted up his voice and wept.

  Joy and grief, and faith and triumph, mingled in his flowing tears;
  Refluent on his patient spirit rolled the tide of sixty years.

  As the past and present blended, lo! his larger vision saw,
  In his own life's compensation, Nature's universal law.

  "God is good, O reverend stranger! He hath taught me of His ways,
  By this great and crowning lesson, in the evening of my days.

  "Keep the treasure,--I have plenty,--and am richer that I see
  Life ascend, through change and evil, to that perfect life to be,--

  "In each woe a blessing folded, from all loss a greater gain,
  Joy and hope from fear and sorrow, rest and peace from toil and pain.

  "God is great! His name is mighty! He is victor in the strife!
  For He bringeth Good from Evil, and from Death commandeth Life!"

ABOUT SPIRES.

When the children of Shem said one to another at Babel,--"Go to, let us build us a city and
a tower whose top shall reach unto heaven," they typified a remarkable trait of the human mind,--a
desire for a tangible and material exponent of itself in its most heroic moods. In the earlier
ages of the world, when humanity, as it were, was becoming conscious of itself and its godlike
energies, it seems as if this desire could find no nobler expression than in towers. The same
spirit of enterprise which in our own day stretches forth inquiring hands into unexplored realms
of physical and intellectual being, and acknowledges in the spoils of such search its noblest
and proudest attainments, in more primeval times appears to have been content with the actual
and visible invasion of high building into that sky which to them was the great type of the
unknown and mysterious.

The birth of these structures was not of the practical necessities of life, but of that fond
desire of the soul which has ever haunted mankind with intimations of immortality. Towers thus
became the boldest imaginable symbols of energy and power. And when, in the course of time,
they became exigencies of society, and familiarized by the idea of usefulness, even then they
could not but be recognized as expressions of the more heroic elements of human nature.

Founded in superabundant massiveness, and built in prodigality of strength, the tower seems
to defy the elements and to outlive tradition. Old age restores it to more than its primeval
significance; and when humbler erections have passed away and crumbled in ruins, it appears
once more to rise above the customary uses of men, and to become a companion for tempests and
clouds.

  "Dying insensibly away
  From human thoughts and purposes,"

we at length associate it with no achievements of man, and its masonry becomes venerable to
us, as shaped by mysterious beings,--Ghouls or Titans,--no fellow-workers of ours.

Let us for a while forget the tedious realisms around us, and eat of the dreamy Lotos. Let
us look eastward over the wide waters, and behold, along the horizon, the "dim rich cities"
printing themselves against the morning. Let us listen to their mellow chimes that come faintly
to us, and bless those deep-toned utterances so full of the tenderness of ancient days and
the melody of gray traditions. Let us bless them; for, like lyres of Amphion, at their sound
arose the bell-bearing tower, which made cities beautiful and their people happy. O St. Chrysostom!
there were other golden mouths than thine that preached by the Bosphorus, and their pulpits
were the airy chambers of the first Christian towers. Where the muezzin every hour from the
lofty minaret now calls the faithful Mahometan to prayer, were first heard those matin and
vesper chimes which since then throughout Catholic Europe have accompanied the rising and the
setting of the sun. Thus the Christian tower immediately becomes associated with the tenderest
and most poetical ideas of monastic and pastoral religion. It seemed emulous from the beginning
to be the first to catch the beams of morning, and, like the statue of Memnon, to respond to
the golden touch by sounds of music. Then the fervid heart of Italy took fire, and from her
bosom uprose over all her cities the beautiful campanile. Still and solemn it stood on the
plains of Lombardy, like a sentinel on the outskirts of our faith, whispering to the vast of
space that all was well. Over the lagunes of Venice the weary toil of two centuries piled up
the tower of St. Mark. Ravenna, with barbaric pride, built her round-cinctured towers to the
glory of the Exarchate. Rome followed with her square campaniles, whose arcaded chambers looked
down on a hundred cloisters. Then there were La Ghirlandina at Modena, Il Torazzo at Cremona,
Torre della Mangia at Siena, the Garisenda at Bologna, the Leaning Tower at Pisa. Everywhere
they sought the skies with emulous heights, and ere long they arose in such number as to give
a distinctive aspect to the Christian city, and to warn the traveller from afar that he approached
walls within which religion was a pride and a power. Who has not admired the Giotto Campanile,
called "the Beautiful," at Florence? And who has not wondered at the splendor of her citizens,
whose command was, "to construct an edifice whose magnificence should be beyond the conception
even of the cognoscenti, and whose height and quality of workmanship should surpass all that
has been built in any style, in Greece or Rome, even at the most florid period of their power!"

But the spiritualization and glory of the tower are yet wanting. There is a very human expression
about it, as it stands in the midst of those glimmering lands, with its haughty summit commanding
far-distant plains,--

  "Far as the wild swan wings, to where the sky
  Dips down to sea and sands,"--

a very human expression of scornful pride and imperious dominion. We shall see how it outgrew
its mere humanities and became an expression of immortal aspirations, a symbol of our relationship
with ethereal existences.

These Italian campaniles had either flat summits, or were crowned with a low, unimportant roof.
But as they approached the North of Lombardy, and found their way into Germany, France, and
Britain, these roofs, through the necessities of climate, became steeper and sharper. Many
of the little gray mountain-chapels in the South of Switzerland still lift up these pointed
towers amid the hamlets of the valley, having gathered in the hardy flocks at eventide for
seven or eight centuries. The same early modifications may yet be seen on the banks of the
Rhine, where the conical, stork-haunted caps of the round towers are so picturesquely associated
with that legendary scenery. Those dear, time-worn, rugged, red-tiled roofs, with their peaks
coming in just where they are needed,--what could the artist do without them? Then the same
necessities made the early French and Norman builders push up into the air those gaunt, quaint
old camelbacks, with spindles or pinnacles astride. You cannot but love them for their strangeness
and the surprise they make against the quiet sky. In Britain, too, you might have beheld this
tendency, where the lordly curfew quenched the lights in castle and cot from beneath a very
extinguisher of a roof. Now, as, in the natural growth of the human mind, the heart became
more and more impregnated with the beauty of holiness, and the prayers of men ascended with
somewhat of purer aspiration to heaven, so did they build their tower-roofs higher and higher
into the air, till at length the spire was born. In one of those quaint antique towers of Normandy,
Coutances, it was first fully developed; and it is curious to see how in this instance its
roof-origin was still remembered: for it has tall, gabled garret-windows rising from its base,
connected by rude cross-bars to the slope of the spire; and it has a kind of scaly mail, Ruskin
says, which is nothing more than the copying in stone of the common wooden shingles of the
house-roof. Now the proud Italian architects, disdainful though they were of the arts of the
rude Northern builders, could not but admit the expressiveness of the pointed roof; so they
placed a form of it on some of their campaniles, as on those of Venice and Cremona, in both
these instances making it a third of the whole height. But the spire, though an effective,
was as yet an unambitious structure,--scarcely more than an exaltation or an apotheosis of
the roof. For a long time it continued to be merely a supplementary addition in wood to the
solid masonry of the tower, and in the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries was
often added to substructures of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth.

Surely it is very dull in us, out of our present enlightenment, to continue to distinguish
the mediaeval times as the Dark Ages, as if they were glimmering and ghostly, and men groped
about in them blindly, living in a sort of dusky romance of feudality. Did you ever study De
la Roche's incarnation of Mediaeval Art in his Hemicycle,--that long saintly robe with its
still and serious folds, that fair dreamy face, those upturned eyes, "the homes of silent prayer,"
the contemplative repose? It is truly an exquisite idealization; yet there is something wanting.
I believe the piety of those days was rather a passion than a sentiment. Their "beauty of holiness"
was rather an active emotional impulse than a passive spiritualization, and was incomplete
without a material expression, a tangible demonstration of itself. Like the fabled Narcissus,
it yearned for its own image. Hence the joy and luxury of the ecclesiastical buildings of that
period. They were the very blossoming of the tree of knowledge. This was, indeed, an unenlightened,
perhaps a superstitious principle of worship; but it was enthusiastic, self-sacrificing, and
chivalrous. It, indeed, sent the stylite to his pillar, the hermit to the wilderness, the ascetic
to the scourge and hair-cloth shirt; but it also led the warrior to the Holy Land, the beggar
to the castle-hearth, and the workman to the building of the House of God. It is no wonder
that a religion born thus in childlike fervor, and seeking expression in outward signs, built
upward. It is no wonder that out of the prosaic elements of the roof it made the spiritual
essence of the spire. If we look through the whole range of architectural forms in classic
or mediaeval times, we shall find no one so indicative of any human emotion as this simple
outline is of the highest of all emotions,--prayer. It is a significant fact, that the sentiment
of aspiration is nowhere hinted at in Classic Art, and we look in vain for it in all pagan
architectures. This is not surprising. The worshippers who built in those schools demonstrated
there all the noblest ideas they were capable of,--intellectual beauty, dignity, power, truth,
chastity, courage, and all the other virtues cherished in their theologies; but their personal
relations with any higher sphere of existence, vague and undefined as they were, called for
no expression in their temples, and obtained none.

The pyramidal form has ever possessed peculiar fascinations for men, and, from its simplicity,
grandeur, and power, has been used in all ages with innumerable modifications in those structures
whose object was to impress and overawe,--as in the pyramids of Egypt, the temples of India
and Mexico, and in all the earliest funereal monuments. It involved a rude symbolism, which
recommended itself to the barbarous childhood of nations. But it was not until the pyramid
was sharpened and spiritualized into the spire that it gained its completest triumph over the
secret emotions of men. The Egyptians made the nearest approach to it in the obelisk. That
mysterious people felt very keenly the suggestiveness of the pyramidal form, and refined the
language of its sentiment into some very beautiful expressions. Yet between the mausoleums
of Gizeh and the hieroglyphic shafts of Luxor and Karnac there existed a modification, the
intensity of whose meaning they were not prepared to understand. Neither their civilization
nor their religion required such an exponent; so they exhausted themselves with their mountainous
bulks of stone and their pictured monoliths.

We know not how the first view of a Christian spire would affect the mind of an alien; but
so far as our own experiences are concerned, though perhaps familiar only with the lowliest
and most unpretending of its kind, we are conscious that it deeply impressed even the "unsunned
temper" of our childhood. The wisest among us may not be able to define precisely these impressions,
or trace to their source the admiration and satisfaction it occasions, yet all are ready to
acknowledge its beautiful fitness to adorn and glorify the Christian temple. But to the thoughtful
mind how suggestive it is of pleasant imagery! It is "the silent finger" that points to heaven;
it is an upward aspiration of the soul; a prayer from the depths of a troubled heart; a suspirium
de profundis; a hymn of thanksgiving; a pure life, throwing of the worldly and approaching
the ethereal; a finite mind searching, till lost in the vastness of the unknown and unapproachable;
a beautiful attempt; a voice of praise sent up from the earth, till, like the soaring lark,
it "becomes a sightless song." Indeed, our unbidden thoughts, that wild-ivy of the mind, are
trained upward by the spire, till it is hung round with the tenderest associations and recollections
of all that is sweet and softening in our natures. Thus, when the painter has represented on
his canvas some wild phase of scenery, where the gadding vine, the tangled underwood, the troubled
brook, the black, frowning rock, the untamed savage growth of the forest,

  "Old plash of rains and refuse patched with moss,"

impress us with awe, and a sad, homeless feeling, as if we were lost children, how eloquent
is that last touch of his pencil that shows us a simple spire peeping over the tree-tops! How
it comforts us! How it brings us home again, and bestows an air

  "Of sweet civility on rustic wilds"!

But even if we were not inclined to be sentimental on the subject, even if base utilities had
crowded out from our hearts the blessed capacity of shedding rosy light on things about us,
the coldest esteem could not but ripen into affection, when we reflected that the spire never
adorned the shrine of a pagan god, never glorified the mosque of a false prophet, never, in
purity, arose from any unconsecrated ground; but when, at last, the Church of Christ felt the
"beauty of holiness," then it developed out of that beauty and pointed the way to God. It exhaled
from the growing perfection of the Church, as fragrance from an opening flower. It is, therefore,
peculiarly holy. It is a monitor of especial grace. "It marshals us the way that we are going,"
like the visionary dagger of Macbeth; but the knell that sounds beneath it summons only to heaven.

Practically, it is utterly useless; and this is its honor and its unspeakable dignity. We cannot
even climb it, as we could a tower; for it is nearly as unapproachable as the Oracle of God,
save to the innocent birds, who love to flock and wheel about it in the sunshine, and build
their nests in its "coignes of vantage," or, in the night-time, to the troops of stars which
touch it in their journey through the skies. It is as beautifully idle as the lilies of the
field; and yet its expressiveness touches us so nearly, the propriety of its sentiment is so
striking, that, when the great test question of this living age is applied to it, and we are
asked, What is its use? what is it good for? the heart is shocked at the impiety of the question,
and the feelings revolt, as against an insult. Upon the arches of Canterbury Minster is carved,

  NON * NOBIS * DOMINE * NON * NOBIS *
  SED * NOMINI * TVO * DA * GLORIAM *

Nothing can be simpler than the composition of the pure spire. The aesthetics of its development
and growth are characteristically natural and apparent. They are like the history of a flower
from bud to bloom under a warm sun. Let us become botanists of Art for a while, and analyze
those flowers of worship, as they opened "in that first garden of their simpleness."

Considering the growth of the spire from the tower-roof, it might naturally be supposed that
the earliest forms would be square or round, in plan. But no sooner had the roof passed into
this new sphere of existence, than the fine intelligence of the builders perceived that it
needed refinement. They saw that in a square spire there was so coarse a distinction between
the tapering mass of light and the tapering mass of shadow, that the delicacy and lightness
necessary to express the sentiment they desired to convey did not exist in the new feature;--in
a round spire, on the other hand, they found that this distinction of light and shade was too
little marked; it was vapid and effeminate, and quite without that delicious crispiness of
effect which they at once obtained by cutting off the corners of the square spire, and reducing
it to an octagon. With very rare exceptions, as in the southwest spire of Chartres Cathedral,
this form was always used. Now it will be seen that a difficulty arises in the beginning, how
to unite the octagon of the spire with the square of the tower. There are four triangular spaces
at the summit of the tower left uncovered by the superstructure; and how best to treat these,
simple as the task may seem, constitutes what may be called the touchstone of architectural
genius in spire-building. There are several general ways of effecting this, each of them subject
to such modifications, in individual instances, as to give them an ever-varying character.

Perhaps the earliest method was simply to occupy those triangular spaces with pyramidal masses
of masonry, sloping back against the adjacent faces of the tower,--an expedient which Nature
herself might have suggested in the first snow-storm. Then they boldly cut the Gordian knot
by shaving off the corners of the tower at the top, thus creating there an octagonal platform,
to which the spire would exactly correspond. Still oftener they chamfered the spire upwards
from the corners of the tower: in other words, they placed, as it were, a square spire on their
tower, occupying the whole of its summit, and then obtained the necessary octangularity by
shaving off the angles of the spire from the apex to a certain point near the base, where the
cutting was continued obliquely to the corners of the tower. The latest method was to build
pinnacles on the triangular territory. In such cases the spire usually stood wholly within
the outer boundaries, and parapets assisted to conceal the first springing of the spire.

The first of these methods is usually considered the most perfect and beautiful, on account
of its simplicity and candor. This is called the broach; and it is the only form thus far spoken
of wherein the tapering surfaces rise directly from the tower-cornice, without mutilating the
tower or violating the pure outlines of the spire. The heavenward aspiration, as it were, ascends
without effort from the solidity of the tower. It seems to typify a certain fitness and adaptability
to heavenly things even in the gross and earthly nature of man. One cannot fail to admire its
unaffected dignity, its harmonious balance, its graceful proportions.

It would be impossible within the limits of this article to give any idea of the wonderful
diversity of treatment these simple generic forms received at the hands of the early builders.
The changes of combination, proportion, and ornamentation were endless. For the mediaeval spirit
was eminently earnest in its labor, and would not be content with copying an old shape merely
because it was a good shape. It would not be satisfied with the cold repetition of a written
litany of architectural forms; but its ardent piety, its thoughtful zeal, the life of its love,
demanded an ever-varying expression in these visible prayers. Emerson himself might find nought
to censure there, in the way of undue conformities and consistencies. Its language was written
with the infinite alphabet of Nature.

We are speaking now especially of England; and we, her children, may well be proud that these
divine enthusiasms of antiquity, which we thought so quaint, so rare, so far away from us,
nowhere else found fairer demonstrations. The English spires bear especial witness to the zeal
and aspiration of their builders. They belted them with bands of ornament, cut at first in
imitation of tiles, and afterwards beautifully panelled with foliations. Moulded ribs began
to run up the angles of the spires, and, when they met at the summit, would exultingly curl
themselves together in the most precious cruciforms. Quaint spire-lights began to appear. Sometimes
curious dormers would project from alternate sides; and the very ribs, as if, in this spring-time
of Art, they felt, quickening along their lengths, the mysterious movements of a new life,
sprouted out here and there with knots of leafage, timidly at first, and then with all the
wealth and profusion of the harvest. The same impulse wreathed the crowning cross with a thousand
midsummer fancies, till the circle of Eternity, or the triangle of Trinity, which often mingled
with its arms, scarcely knew itself. The pinnacles, too, blossomed into crockets and bud-like
finials, and began to gather more thickly about the roots of the spire, and from them often
leaped flying-buttresses against it. During this time the spire itself was growing more and
more acute, its lines becoming more and more eloquent. After the fourteenth century, the tower
began to be crowned with intricate panelled tracery of parapets and battlements, from behind
which the spire, an entirely separate structure, shot up into the sky. In this, the period
of the perpendicular style, pinnacles, purfled to the last degree, crowded about the base of
the spire, reminding one of the admiring throng gathered about the base of some old picture
of the Ascension. But there is another English form which perhaps conveys this sentiment even
more impressively: We refer to that whose prototype exists in the steeple of the Church of
St. Nicholas at Newcastle-upon-Tyne. This, however, has four turrets, one on each angle, from
which, with great lightness, leap towards each other four grand flying-buttresses, which join
hands over an empty void and hold in the air a lantern and spirolet of great elegance. This
is a very bold piece of construction. It has been imitated at St. Giles's, Edinburgh, at Linlithgow,
in the college tower of Aberdeen, and it is especially made known to the world by Sir Christopher
Wren's famous use of it in the steeple of St. Dunstan's-in-the-East, London.

The most famous spires of England and Normandy are St. Peter's at Caen, a very early specimen,
St. Michael's at Coventry, Louth, that of the parochial church of Boston in Lincolnshire, that
of Chichester Cathedral, the three that rise from the famous Lichfield Cathedral, and finally
and especially the magnificent spire over the cross of Salisbury. In the judgment of most English
connoisseurs, this is the finest in the world. It was probably erected during the reign of
Edward III., a very florid period for architecture. It is the highest in England, its summit
rising four hundred and four feet from the pavement of the church beneath. It is one of the
earliest erected in stone, and is remarkable for skilful construction, the masonry in no part
being more than seven inches thick. This spire is belted with three broad bands of panelled
tracery, and there are eight pinnacles at its base, two on each corner of the tower. The ribs
are fretted throughout the whole height with elegant crockets, thus imparting to the sky-line
an appearance similar to the gusty spray on the borders of a rain-cloud. An admirer has said
of it, "It seems as though it had drawn down the very angels to work over its grand and feeling
simplicity the gems and embroidery of Paradise itself!" England once boasted the loftiest spire
in the world, that of old St. Paul's, London, whose summit, five hundred and twenty feet from
the ground, seemed to sail among the highest clouds; but the great fire of 1666 destroyed it,
and Sir Christopher's stately metropolitan dome now rises in its place.

One could believe in the "merrie" days of Old England, were her abundant spires their only
evidence. The ardent zeal that kindled so many thousand answering beacons throughout the length
and breadth of the land is the best proof of that concord of souls which is true happiness.
We know that the decision of the Council of Clermont about the Crusades was believed to have
been instantly known through Christendom, and that the great cry, God willeth it! which shook
the council-roof, was echoed from hill to hill, and at once struck awe and astonishment to
the hearts of remotest lands. So in the birthplaces of our Pilgrim fathers, over these cherished
spots,

  "Where the kneeling hamlets drained
  The chalice of the grapes of God,"

arose the "star y-pointing" spire, like a voice of adoration; and then another would be raised
in unison in some neighboring village, where they could see and communicate with each other
in their silent language; and yet another close by among the hills; and presently, in full
view from its summit, twenty more, perhaps,--till the good tidings were known through the whole
country, and from hamlet to hamlet, over the streams and tree-tops, was thus echoed the great
Te Deum of the land.

It is a beautiful proof of the spirit of sacrifice which actuated the Masonic builder of the
Middle Ages, that his fairest and most precious works were not confined to the great metropolitan
churches and cathedrals, where they could be seen of men, but were frequently found in quiet
and secluded villages, nestled among pastoral solitudes, far away from the gaze and admiration
of the world. Though the spire of Salisbury was, perhaps, an epic in Masonic poetry, yet in
humble hamlets of England, beyond her most distant hills, and amid many an unnamed "sunny spot
of greenery," were idyls sung no less exquisite than this. Many a village-spire, of conception
no less beautiful, arose above the tree-tops among the most untrodden ways. All day long its
shadow lingers in the quiet churchyard, and points among the humble graves, as if, over this
dial of human life, it loved to preach silent homilies on "the passing away," even to the simplest
poor. It must be inexpressibly touching to meet with these beautiful forms in the lonely wilderness,
where the ivy alone, as it throws its loving arms around them, appears to recognize their grace
and all their tender significance. It is like the chance discovery of a good deed done in the
darkness, or like a pure life spent in the sweet and serious retirement of a little hamlet,
pointing the way to heaven for its scanty flock of cottagers.

It was the custom in those days, during the celebration of Mass, at the moment when the Host
was raised, to ring a peculiar bell in the tower, in order that those not gathered beneath
the consecrated roof might be made aware far and wide of the awful ceremony, and be reminded
to offer up their devotion in unison. Now it seems to us that the spire is a perpetual elevation
of the Host, a never-ending lifting-up of the Symbol of Redemption, a consecrating presence
to field and cottage, hillside and highway, ever ready to bless the accidental glance of wayfarer
or laborer, and to make in the desert of his daily life a momentary oasis of sweet and hallowed
thought. Its peaceful influence extends over the whole landscape and pierces to its remotest
corners.

  "A gentler life spreads round the holy spires;
  Where'er they rise, the sylvan waste retires,
  And aëry harvests crown the fertile lea."

It may be thought that St. Peter's cock, which so often answers the sunbeams from the spindly
spire, and kindles and glitters there like a star, is rather empty of emblematic significance
and soul-language. But what saith old Bishop Durandus?--"The cock at the summit of the church
is a type of the preacher. For the cock, ever watchful, even in the depth of night, giveth
notice how the hours pass, waketh the sleepers, predicteth the approach of day,--but first
exciteth himself to crow by striking his sides with his wings. There is a mystery conveyed
in each of these particulars: the night is the world; the sleepers are the children of this
world, who are asleep in their sins; the cock is the preacher who preacheth boldly, and exciteth
the sleepers to cast away the works of darkness, exclaiming, Woe to them that sleep! Awake,
thou that sleepest! and then foretell the approach of day, when they speak of the Day of Judgment
and the glory that shall be revealed, and, like prudent messengers, before they teach others,
arouse themselves from the sleep of sin by mortifying their bodies; and as the weather-cock
faces the wind, they turn themselves boldly to meet the rebellious by threats and arguments."

But it was on the Continent, especially in France, the Low Countries, and Germany, that the
Gothic flower opened in fullest perfection; and it is here that we find the loftiest and most
luxurious spire-forms. They were always the last part of the church completed, the finishing-touch,
the last that was needed to perfection. The progress of the building of a cathedral thus embodied
a beautiful symbolism. In most cases, the choir, or east end, the holiest part of the church,
was the first erected, in order to sanctify and protect the high altar; and then, as the treasures
of the church flowed in, after the expiration of years or centuries, the builders, tutored
by a legendary science, and harmonized by a wonderful feeling of brotherhood, in the same spirit,
perfected the designs of their predecessors, by leading out westward the long naves and attendant
aisles, completing northward and southward the transepts, adding a chapel here and a porch
there, glorifying the western front with the touches of divine genius; and when at last every
niche was occupied with its statue of angel, saint, or pious benefactor, and the holy choir,
with its apsis, had been re-adorned with the accumulated art of centuries, and glowed with
the iris-light from painted windows,--when the mural monuments of bishops, warriors, and kings
had thickened beneath the consecrated roof, and the whole structure had been hallowed by the
prayers and chantings of generations,--then, at last, over the ancient tower arose the lofty
spire; as if an angelic messenger had spread his wings at its base and mounted upward to heaven,
shouting out the glad tidings of the completion of the House of God, and, as he arose, the
voice grew fainter and fainter, till at length it melted into the sky!

The finest spires of Europe were erected as late as the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth
centuries, upon towers prepared for their reception, usually, in much earlier times. This confidence
of the old builders in the final completion of their structures is remarkable. They drew without
stint on the piety of after ages,--a resource which has not unfrequently proved too feeble
to realize their generous expectations. There are few cities in Europe which do not bear sad
marks of this misplaced confidence. This is especially witnessed in the unfinished steeples.
And, indeed, when we find that not only one, but two, three, four, or even five spires were
sometimes required to flame upward from the same building, as in Caen Cathedral, we do not
wonder that the kindling spark is often wanting. It would seem as if another fire must come
down from heaven, as of old it did upon the first offering of Moses and Aaron, to inflame these
censers, rich in frankincense and naphtha.

Now let us see what were the distinguishing attributes of the Continental spires. We know not
why it was, but in the gray old towns of Belgium and the Low Countries there existed such exuberance
of imagination, such an unbounded luxuriousness of conception, as created more images of Gothic
quaintness and intricacy than elsewhere can be seen. If any architecture ever expressed the
average of human thought, that of these towns is especially eloquent in its indications that
their inhabitants were very happy and contented. Look at a print of any old Belgian town or
street, and you will at once see our meaning. What a joyous upspringing of pinnacles and pointed
roofs and spires! of no more earthly use, indeed, than so much pleasant laughter. There is
no tower without its spire, no turret or gable without its pinnacle, no oriel without its pointed
roof, no dormer without some such playful leaping up into the air. Every salient point attacks
the sky with its long iron spindle, wrought with strange device and bearing a hospitable cup
where the bird makes his nest; and every spindle sings and shrieks with a shifting vane,--so
that the wind never sweeps idly over a Belgian town. This innocent and happy people did not
frown through the ages from grim battlements, and awe posterity with stern and massive walls.
But they loved old childlike associations and fireside tales. They loved to build curious fountains
in commemoration of pleasant legends. They loved, too, the huge, delicious-toned bells of their
minster-towers, and the sweet changes of melodious, never-ceasing chimes. They carved their
Lares and Penates on their house-fronts very curiously, with sun-dials and hatchments, sacred
texts and legends of hospitality. The narrow streets of Ghent, Louvain, Liege, Mechlin, Antwerp,
Ypres, Bruges are thus full of household memories and saintly traditions. So it is not strange
that a people whose daily hours were counted out with the music of belfries were fond of fretting
their towers with workmanship so precious and delicate that it has been called "the petrifaction
of music."

But before we proceed to tell in how florid a manner the Low Countries interpreted the simpler
forms of spires, we shall describe generically in what manner not only they, but all the other
European kingdoms, were indebted to the old Rhineland towns for some of these forms. When the
bell-tower, in about the seventh or eighth century, began to be used in Germany, it at once
received certain very important modifications on the earlier Italian campanile. The upper terminations
of these latter were horizontal, on account of their flat roofs. Now in more northern climates,
where the snow falls, these flat roofs would be unsafe and inconvenient. So we find that the
first church-towers that arose in such Rhenish places as Oberwesel, Gelnhausen, Bacharach,
Coblentz, Cologne, Bingen, "sweet Bingen on the Rhine," no longer ended in these horizontal
lines, but arose in pointed shapes. Indeed, the Germans, who were great rivals of the Italians
in those days, not only in matters pertaining to architecture, but to literature also, in the
same independent spirit which induced them alone, of all civilized peoples, to retain through
all time the cramped, angular letters of monkish transcribers, in preference to the fair and
square Roman forms, took particular pride in avoiding horizontal lines entirely at the tops
of their towers, as they did at the tops of their letters. Wherever they so occur, they are
insignificant,--rather ornamental than constructive. Not so with the English; they kept the
square tops to their towers, and contented themselves with the pointed superstructure. Let
us see how Teutonic stubbornness arranged the matter. Each separate face of their towers, whether
these towers were square or octangular, ended above in a gable; and from these gables, in various
ways, arose the octangular pointed roof or spire. This circumstance, more than any other, tended
to give a peculiar character to German Gothic. The simplest type of the gabled spire was magnificently
used in the spire of St. Peter's at Hamburg. This was the finest in North Germany; it was four
hundred and sixteen feet high, and, if still standing, would be the third in height in the
world. But it was destroyed by the great fire of 1842. Many a traveller can bear witness to
the sweet melody of the chimes that used to sound beneath it every half-hour.

In later times, between the Germans and the French, was invented the lantern,--a feature so
often and so superbly used, not only on the Continent, but more lately in England, that we
must needs glance at it. This consisted in a tall, perpendicular, octangular structure, placed
upon the tower, quite light and open, and pierced with long windows. Here they used to swing
the bells, and the place was called the lantern or louvre; thence the octangular spire arose
easily and naturally. Now, notwithstanding this device, those troublesome triangular spaces
still remained unoccupied at the top of the square tower. The manner in which this difficulty
was remedied was exceedingly ingenious and beautiful. It was by building on them very delicate
pinnacles or turrets, peopled, perhaps, as at Freiburg, with a silent and serene concourse
of saints in rich niches, or inclosing, as at Strasburg, spiral open-work stairs. These structures
accompanied the tall lantern through its whole height; thus rendering the entire group a memory,
as it were, of the square tower below, while, at the same time, it beautifully foreshadowed
the octangular character of the sky-seeking spire above,--a significant symbolism.

Now, when the Belgians and their neighbors received the spire thus from the fatherland, they
at once began to express in it the joy of their worship by all the embroidery and tender imagery
and grotesque conceits it was capable of receiving. They varied as many changes on it as they
did on their bells. They concealed the first springing of their spires behind clustering pinnacles,
flying-buttresses, canopied niches with gigantic statues, galleries with battlements and parapets
pierced and mantled in lacework of flamboyant tracery, pointed gables alive with crockets and
finials, and long, quaint dormers,--all with a bewildering intricacy of enrichment. And they
inherited from the Germans a love for the gargoyle, which haunted the springing of the spire
at the corners with visions of very hideous diablerie. It may well be believed that these florid
builders did not suffer the spire to arise serious and serene from the midst of this delicious
tangle of architecture. They tricked it out with all the frostwork of Gothic genius. Not only
did they use in its decoration spire-lights, crockets, ribs and cinctures, bands of gablets,
and masses of reticulated relief, but, with wonderful skill, they pierced each face from base
to apex in foliated patterns of great richness, so that the whole spire became a web of delicate
open-work, through which the light was sprinkled in beautiful shapes, varying with every movement
of the beholder. Their plainer spires of wood they were fond of covering with glazed tiles
of various tints arranged in quaint taste. And they would vary the outline by making it curve
inward, giving a fine sweep thus from the base to an apex of great slenderness. Sometimes they
would give it, with exaggerated refinement, the entasis of the Greek column. There are instances
of this last treatment both in France and England.

But it was not only in exuberance of enrichment and quaintness of form that these enthusiastic
workmen uttered their inspirations. They built their spires to a most amazing height. Indeed,
the loftiest steeples in the world arose in level tracts of country, where they could be seen
at immense distances, as not only in Belgium and thereabout, but on the flat margins of the
upper and lower Rhine, as at Strasburg and Cologne. In these countries, and about the North
of France, there was a generous rivalry as to which city should lift up highest the cross of
God. But as soon as the sacred passion for spire-building was corrupted by this new element
of human emulation, some strange things happened. The people of Beauvais, for instance, desiring
to beat the people of Amiens, set to work, we are told, to build a tower on their cathedral
as high as they possibly could. The same thing had been done once before on the plains of Shinar.
One foresees the result, of course; "it fell, for it was founded upon the sand, and great was
the fall thereof." And so with the good people of Louvain. They built three spires to their
cathedral, of which the central one reached the unparalleled height of five hundred and thirty-three
feet, according to Hope, and the side-towers four hundred and thirty feet. This tremendous
group, however, fell, or, threatening destruction, was taken down, in 1604. We remember what
the Wanderer said so finely in the "Excursion":--

  "We must needs confess
  That 'tis a thing impossible to frame
  Conceptions equal to the soul's desire;
  And the most difficult of tasks to keep
  Heights which the soul is competent to gain."

But we find that ecclesiastical edifices were not the only ones which were adorned with this
high building; for town-halls were not infrequently distinguished by immensely lofty spires,
as at Brussels. It is curious to see, however, how easily the less exalted impulses which erected
them may be discovered. They do not soar, they climb up panting into the sky, like the famous
passage up through Chaos, in Milton, "with difficulty and labor hard." They have not the light,
airy gliding upward of the religious spire, whose feeling George Herbert had in his mind, when
he sang of prayer:--

  "Of what an easy, quick accesse,
  My blessed Lord, art thou! how suddenly
  May our requests thine eare invade!"

Not so; but it is all human rivalry, a succession of diminishing towers, steps piled one above
another, where the mind every now and then may stop to breathe, and then fight its way onward
again;--not an Ascension, like that from Bethany; rather the toil of a very human, though very
laudable ambition.

Unfinished spires were in Europe very common legacies from generation to generation. Descendants
were called upon to embody the great conceptions of their forefathers. But the ancestral spirit
too often failed in the land, the wing of aspiration was broken, the crane rotted in its place,
the great conceptions were forgotten, or lived only as vague and dreamy inheritances; and the
half-completed spires stood like Sphinxes, and none knew their riddles! They are very melancholy
memorials. Like the broken columns over the graves of the departed, fallen short of their natural
uses, they seem only the funeral monuments of a race that is dead. The empty air is stilled
over them in expectation, and the imagination makes vain pictures, and fills out their crescent
of splendid purposes. They have been called "broken promises to God." Too often, perhaps, they
were rather monuments of the feebleness of those who would scale heaven with anything but adoration
upon their lips. There were Ulm, indeed, and Cologne, and Mechlin, as artistic intentions,
eminently grand and beautiful; and in the early part of the sixteenth century Belgium was famous
for designs of open-work spires, which, if erected, would have surpassed in height and richness
all hitherto existing. But it is worthy of note that at this period the purity of the Church
had become so sullied with priestcraft and the plenitude of Papal power, that it no longer
possessed within its violated bosom those sacred impulses of piety which whilom sent up the
simple spire, like a pure messenger, to whisper the aspirations of men to the stars. "Gay religions,
full of pomp and gold," could neither feel nor utter the grave tenderness of the early inspirations.
And so, when the German monk affixed his ninety-five theses to the door of Wittenberg Church,
the spire had ceased to be an utterance of prayerful aspiration. It had lost its peculiar significance
as an involuntary expression of worship, and had become liable to all the accidents and contingencies
that attend the efforts of a merely human ambition. The whole story is an architectural version
of the parable of the Pharisee and the Publican who went down to the temple to pray.

Of the finished spires, the loftiest in the world are, first, that of Strasburg Minster, 474
feet; second, that of St. Stephens at Vienna, 469 feet; third, that of Notre Dame at Antwerp,
466 feet; then that of Salisbury, 404 feet; Freiburg in the Breisgau, 380-1/2 feet; and then
follow the distinguished heights of Landshut, Utrecht, Rouen, Chartres, Brugrels, Soissons,
and others. The highest spire in our own country is that of Trinity Church, New York, 284 feet.
We do not "sweep the cobwebs from the sky" so effectually as when men built according to the
scale of spiritual exaltation rather than that of practical feet and inches,--after the stature
of the soul, rather than that of the man.

The architects of the revival of classic architecture, with the learned language of the five
orders, with pediments and attics, consoles and urns, labored to express the childlike sentiment
of the spire. But even the great Sir Christopher Wren, with his sixty steeple-towers, and all
his followers to this day, have not succeeded in a translation so unnatural. Spirituality and
the artless grace of inspiration are wanting to the spires of the Renaissance, and so they
struggle up painfully into the sky. And it is very rare to find those who have gone back even
to Gothic models building a spire which touches our affections, or claims affinity with any
of our nobler emotions; so sensitive is this unique structure to the approach of any element
foreign to the early conditions of its existence.

As for the great Strasburg example, that Jungfrau of all spires, German traditions have very
properly babbled many strange stories about the erection of it. These constitute an episode
so characteristic in the history of spire-building, that this essay would be incomplete, were
they not briefly told here.

In the legendary days of yore, nothing was more common than to meet that personage known as
the Devil walking up and down the earth, in innocent guise, but ripe for all sorts of mischief,
especially where the people were building up mighty monuments to the glory of the good God.
Very naturally, the sacred spire was a special object of his aversion; and, for some reason
or other, that of Strasburg was honored with peculiar marks of his hatred. Two ancient churches,
which stood on the site of the present minster, had been successively destroyed by fire; and
although, in the one case, this had been kindled by the torch of an invading army, and in the
other by a thunderbolt, yet the infernal agency, in both cases, nobody ever thought of doubting.
So it was the effort of Bishop Werner to combat these evil influences; and he accordingly inflamed
the pride and indignation of the people to such a degree, that throughout the land all concerted
to defeat the wicked designs of the Adversary. In two centuries and a half the whole cathedral
was completed, save the tower, the corner-stone of which was forthwith laid with great pomp
by Bishop Conrad of Lichtenberg, on the 25th of May, 1277. Doubtless the Arch-Fiend laid many
cunning schemes to entrap the illustrious architect, Erwin of Steinbach; but, unlike his brother
in the craft at Cologne, he came out unscathed; so we must believe that throughout the whole
work he was actuated by the most unselfish spirit of devotion, infernal machinations to the
contrary notwithstanding. Now it must be confessed that the Enemy had a hard time of it, since
we read that the good Bishop Conrad fought against him with all the powers of the Church, and
granted absolution for all sins, past, present, and future, for forty thousand years, to whatever
person should contribute to the building of the spire by money, material, or labor. Owing to
the scarcity of parchment, these grants of absolution were made out on asses' skins; and it
will be seen, that, in the great struggle, these instruments retained in a very eminent degree
that quality of stubborn resistance which had cost them in their original state many a beating
from the driver's staff. The greatest enthusiasm was kindled among rich and poor; year after
year, thousands of pilgrims flocked hither from all Germany to offer their aid, without reward
or recompense, to the building of the tower; and out of the farthest boundaries, even from
Austria, came wagons loaded with building-materials, the gratuitous offerings of the pious.
Rich legacies were left to the work, and many a cloister devoted a fourth part of its yearly
revenues to the same object So much for asses' skins!

Meanwhile the Devil was not idle. In the night-winds he and his legions would shriek and yell
and rattle among the scaffolding and cranes in vain. In the latter part of the thirteenth century,
he shook the structure with a frightful earthquake, which terrified all Alsatia, and, although
whole streets were thrown down in Strasburg, yet the foundations of the Wunderbau, as the Germans
love to call it, were not loosened, and no stone was moved from its place. A few years afterward,
in 1289, he once more made use of his favorite element, and laid in ashes the market-place
of Strasburg all around the minster. More fortunate than its great compeers, St. Paul's of
London, and St. Peter's of Hamburg, it miraculously experienced but trifling damage.

Well, the great Erwin died at last, when he had built the tower as high as the roof-ridge of
the nave. His son succeeded him, finished the tower to the platform, when he, too, was gathered
to his fathers in 1339. John Hültz followed as master; and finally his nephew, Hültz II., in
1439, finished the grand pyramid, fixed the colossal cross in its place, and crowned the whole
with a gigantic statue of the Virgin. Thus, from the laying of the foundation-stone till all
was completed, were one hundred and sixty years; yet throughout this time the work was never
discontinued, and five successive generations labored upon its walls.

But the wrath of the Arch-Enemy, as may well be believed, waxed greater
as this prodigious structure gradually developed itself in all its
lordliness and strength, and was not at all appeased at its triumphant
completion. Ever since then he has visited its stately height with
especial marks of his malice. The most furious tempests have raged about
it, and more than sixty times has it been struck by lightning, and five
times have earthquakes shaken its foundations. But in vain.
  For around it
  All the Saints and Guardian Angels
  Throng in legions to protect it;
  They defeat us everywhere!"

At one point, however, the evil spirits were successful; the colossal statue of the Virgin,
which crowned the dizzy summit, and was familiar with the secrets of the upper air, and which,
like its dread Enemy,

  "above the rest,
  In shape and gesture proudly eminent,
  Stood like a tower,"--

after having for fifty years borne the insults of these airy powers, till it had lost all its
original brightness, and its face

  "Deep scars of thunder had intrenched,"--

was taken down, and the present cross put in its place. And there it stands to this day, high
up in the silence of midair, where the voices of the city below are rendered small and thin
by the distance,--four hundred and seventy-four feet above the heads of the populace, who,
in their littleness, crawl about and traffic at its base. This amazing summit, "moulded in
colossal calm," in its unapproachable grandeur, seems to forget the city from which it rises,
and to hold communion only with that vast circle of "crowded farms and lessening towers" which
it surveys. It is a worthy companionship; on the one hand, the great Vosgian chain, the closed
gates of France,--on the other, afar off, the hills of the Black Forest, and, more near, Father
Rhine, winding his silver thread among the villages and vineyards of Germany.

There is (or was) an enormous key suspended just beneath the cross of Strasburg Cathedral,
its use, and why it was placed there, having passed away from the memory of man. If it were
not to open the gates of heaven for those who built this ladder of light and those who worship
in its shadow, it remains a riddle and a blank. Let us accept the interpretation, and, made
mild-eyed by the lens of tender memories, we shall behold in every spire a means of grace and
a hope of glory.

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY.

PRELIMINARY CORRESPONDENCE.

THE PUBLISHERS TO THE AUTHOR.

Queerangle Building, Nov. '59.

Dr. SR,--

Will you contract to do us a tale or a novel, at the rate of say 10 pp. per month, with some
popular subject, such as philanthropy, or the Broad Church movement, or fashionable weddings,
or the John Brown invasion, brought in so as to make a taking thing of it? When finished, to
come to a 12mo of 350 pp. more or less. A good article of novel is always salable about Christmas
time, and we can do it up by Dec. 1, 1860. Our Mr. Goader has been round among the hands that
do the light jobbing,--finds several ready to undertake the contract, at say 75c. @ 3.00 per
page;--but want the job done in first-rate style, and think you could furnish us a good article.
Our firm has great facilities for working a novel, tale, or any kind of fancy stuff. What w'd
be y'r terms in cash payment, 1st of every month?

P.S. Would any additional compensation induce you to allow each number to be illustrated by
a colored engraving?

Yr obt serv'ts.

THE AUTHOR TO THE PUBLISHERS.

GENTLEMEN,--

In reply to your polite request, I have to say, that under no circumstances can I entertain
your proposition to write a fictitious narrative. I could, however, relate some very interesting
events which have come to my knowledge, and which, if told in a connected form, might undoubtedly
be taken by the public for a work of fiction. I think my narrative, with some collateral matter
I should introduce, would take up a reasonable space in about a dozen numbers of the Oceanic
Miscellany. I cannot listen to your proposal about the engraving. If you accept my offer to
write out, in the form of a story, the incidents of real life to which I have referred, we
will arrange the terms at a private interview. I consider the first day of a month as unobjectionable
as any other in the same month, as a time for receiving payment of any sum that may be due
me under the proposed contract.

Yours truly.

CONFIDENTIAL EDITOR OF THE OCEANIC MISCELLANY TO THE AUTHOR.

MY DEAR PROF.,--

We have had lots of bob-tail stories,--docked short in from one to three months. Can't you
give us a switch-tail one, that will hang on so as to touch next December? Something imaginary,
based on your recollections,--the incidents of the War of 1812, for instance;--but, at any
rate, a regular "to be continued" "pièce de résistance"

Yours ever.

THE AUTHOR TO THE CONFIDENTIAL EDITOR.

MY DEAR ED.,--

I really wouldn't undertake to tell an "imaginary" story, or to write a romance, or anything
of the kind. I might be willing to relate some curious matters that have come to my knowledge,
arranging them in a collective form, so that they would probably pass with most readers for
fictitious, and perhaps excite very much the same kind of interest they would if genuine fictions.
I don't remember much about the "last war"; but I suppose both of us may recollect the illumination
when peace was declared in 1815.

Ever yours.

THE PUBLISHERS TO THE AUTHOR.

(Inclosing a check, in advance, for the first number.)

THE AUTHOR TO THE READER.

Finding myself in possession of certain facts which possess interest sufficient to warrant
their publication, I am led to ask myself whether I shall put them in the form of a narrative.
There are, evidently, two sides to this question. In the first place, I have a number of friends
who write me letters, and tell me openly to my face, that they want me to go on writing. It
doesn't make much difference to them, they say, what I write about,--only they want me to keep
going. They have got used to seeing me, in one shape or another,--and I am a kind of habit
with them, like a nap after dinner. They tell me not to be frightened about it,--to begin as
dull as I like, and that I shall warm up, by-and-by, as old Dutchman used to, who could hardly
put one leg before the other when he started, but, after a while, got so limbered and straightened
out by his work, that he dropped down into the forties, and, I think they say, into the thirties.
L'appétit vient en mangeant, one of them said who talks French,--which, you know, means, that
eating makes one hungry. I remember, when I sat down to that last book of mine, which you may
perhaps have read, although I had the facts of the story, of course, all in my head, it seemed
to me that I should never have the patience to tell them all; and yet, before I was through,
I got so full of the scenes and characters I was talking about, that I had to bolt my door
and lay in an extra bandanna, before I could trust myself to put my recollections and thoughts
on paper. You don't expect a locomotive is going to start off with a train of thirty or forty
thousand passengers, without straining a little,--do you? That isn't the way; but this is.
Puff! The wheels begin to turn, but very slowly. Papas hold up their little Johnnys to the
car-windows to be kissed. Puff----Puff! People shake hands from the platform to the cars, walking
along by their side. Puff--puff--puff! Now, then, Ma'am! pass out that tumbler pretty spry,
out of which you have been swallowing that eternal "drink o' wotter," to which the human female
of a certain social grade is so odiously addicted. Puff, puff, puff, puff! Too late, old gentleman
I unless you can do a mile in a good deal less than three minutes, carrying weight, in the
shape of a valise in one hand and a carpet-bag in the other. That's the way with anything that's
got any freight to carry. It's slow when it sets out;--but steam is steam,--and what's bred
in the boiler will show in the driving-wheel, sooner or later.

If I had to make up a story, now, it would be a very different matter. I could never conceive
how some of those romancers go to work, in cold blood, to draw, out of what they call their
imagination, a parcel of impossible events and absurd characters. That is not my trouble; for
I have come into relation with a series of persons and events which will save me the pains
of drawing on my invention, in case I shall see fit to follow the counsel of my too partial
friends. I am only afraid I should not disguise the circumstances enough, if I were to arrange
these facts in the narrative form. Some of them are of such a nature, that they cannot be supposed
to have happened more than once in the experience of a generation; and I feel that the greatest
caution and delicacy are necessary in the manner of their presentation, not to offend the living
or wrong the memory of the dead.

It is very easy for you, the Reader, to sit down and run over the pages of a monthly narrative
as a boy "skips" a stone,--and the flatter and thinner your capacity, the more skips, perhaps,
you will make. But I tell you, for a man who has live people to deal with, and hearts that
are beating even while he handles them,--a man who can go into families and pull up by the
roots all the mysteries of their dead generations and their living sons' and daughters' secret
history,--responsible for what he says, here and elsewhere,--open to a libel suit, if he isn't
pretty careful in his personalities, or to a visit from a brother or other relative, wishing
to know, Sir, and so forth,--or to a paragraph in the leading journal of that whispering-gallery
of a nation's gossip, Little Millionville, to the effect that--We understand the personages
alluded to in the tale now publishing in the Oceanic Miscellany are the Reverend Dr. S---h
and his accomplished lady, the distinguished financier, Mr. B---n,--and so through the whole
list of characters;--I say, for a man who writes the pages you skim over, it is a mighty different
piece of business. Why, if I do tell all I know about some things that have come to my cognizance,
I shall make you open your eyes and spread your pupils, as if you had been to the Eye Infirmary,
and the doctors there had anointed your lids with the extract of belladonna. Mark what I tell
you! I have happened to become intimately acquainted with circumstances of a very extraordinary
nature,--not, perhaps, without precedent, but such as very few have been called upon to witness.
Suppose that I should see fit to tell these in connection with the story of which they form
a part? I may render myself obnoxious to persons whom it is not safe to offend,--persons that
won't come out in the public prints, perhaps, but will poke incendiary letters under your doors,--that
won't step up to you in broad daylight, and lug a Colt out of their pocket, or draw a bowie-knife
from their back, where they had carried it under their coat, but who will dog you about to
do you a mischief unseen,--who will carry air-guns in the shape of canes, and hang round the
place where you get your provisions, and practise with long-range rifles out in the lonely
fields,--rifles that crack no louder than a parlor-pistol, but spit a bit of lead out of their
mouths half a mile and more, so that you wait as you do for the sound of the man's axe who
is chopping on the other side of the river, to see the fellow you have "saved" clap his hand
to his breast and stagger over. It makes me nervous to think of such things. I don't want to
be suspicious of every queer taste in my coffee, and to shiver if I see a little powdered white
sugar on the upper crust of my pastry. I don't want, every time I hear a door bang, to think
it is a ragged slug from an unseen gun-barrel.

If Dick V---- was not killed on the Pampas, as they have always said he was, I should never
sleep easy after telling my story. For such a fellow as he was would certainly see through
all the disguises I could cover up a real-life story with, and then----. He has learned the
use of the lasso too well for me to want to trust my neck anywhere within a rod of him, if
there were light enough for him to see, and nothing between us, and nobody near.

And besides, there were a good many opinions handled by some of these people I should have
to talk about. Now, of course, a magazine like the Oceanic is no place for opinions. Look out
for your Mormon subscribers, if you question the propriety of Solomon's domestic arrangements!
And if you say one word that touches the Sandemanians, be sure their whole press will be down
on you; for, as Sandemanianism is the undoubted and absolutely true religion, it follows, of
course, that it is as sore as a scalded finger, and must be handled like a broken bone.

Add to this that I have always had the greatest objection to writing anything which those who
were not acquainted with the facts might call a romance or a tale. We think very ill of a man
who offers us as a truth some single statement which we find he knew to be false. Now what
can we think of a man who tells three volumes, or even one, full of just such lies? Of course
the primâ-facie aspect of the case is, that he is guilty of the most monstrous impertinence;
and, in point of fact, I confess the greatest disgust towards any person of whom I hear the
assertion that he has written a story, unless I hear something more than that. He is bound
to show extenuating or justifying circumstances, as much as the man who writes what he calls
"poems." For, as the world is full of real histories, and every day in every great city begins
and ends a score or half a dozen score of tragic dramas, it is a huge piece of assumption to
undertake to make one out of one's own head. A man takes refuge under your porch in a rain-storm,
and you offer him the use of your shower-bath!

Also, I cannot help remembering, that, on the whole, I have been more intensely bored with
works of fiction,--beginning with "Gil Blas," and ending with--on the whole, I won't even mention
it,--than I ever was by the Latin Grammar or Rollin's History. Naturally, therefore, I should
not wish to threaten my friends with the punishment I have endured from others. But then, as
I said before, if I write down the circumstances that have come to my knowledge, with some
account of persons, opinions, and conversations, no one can accuse me of writing a novel,--a
thing which I never meant to do, under any circumstances.

----After having carefully weighed my friends' arguments and my own objections, I have come
to the conclusion to do pretty much as I like about it. Now the truth is, I have grown to be
rather fonder of you, the Reader, than I have ever been willing to confess. You are such a
good, kind creature,--it takes so little to please you,--you laugh and cry so very obligingly
at just the right time,--you send me such charming notes, such dear little copies of verses,--nay,
(shall I venture to say it?) such prodigal tokens of kindness, some of you, that I----in short,
I love you very much, and cannot make up my mind to part with you. Rather than do this, as
I could not and would not write a romance, I have made up my mind to tell you something of
some persons and events of which I have known enough,--of some of them, I might say, too much.
Of course, you must trust wholly to my discretion and sense of propriety, in dealing with living
personages, recent events, and subjects still in dispute. Trusting that none of my friends
will pay any attention to any idle rumors tending to fix the personages or localities of which
I shall speak, and reminding my readers that the narrative will constitute only a part of what
I have to say, inasmuch as there will be no small amount of reflections introduced, and perhaps
of conversations reported, I begin this connected statement of facts with an essay on a social
phenomenon not hitherto distinctly recognized. "Why didn't I warn him about love and all that
nonsense?" Why didn't I tell him he had nothing to do with it, yet awhile?

ANDENKEN.

  II.

  III.

  It is sweet to lie awake musing
  On all she has said and done,
  To dwell on the words she uttered,
  To feast on the smiles I won,

  To think with what passion at parting
  She gave me my kisses again,--
  Dear adieux, and tears and caresses,--
  Oh, love! was it joy or pain?

  To brood, with a foolish rapture,
  On the thought that it must be
  My darling this moment is waking
  With tenderest thoughts of me!

  O sleep I are thy dreams any sweeter?
  I linger before thy gate:
  We must enter at it together,
  And my love is loath and late.

  IV.

CENTRAL BRITISH AMERICA.

Even before the announcement of the discovery of gold upon the Frazer River and its tributaries,
the people of Canada West had induced the Parliament of England to institute the inquiry, whether
the region of British America, extending from Lakes Superior and Winnipeg to the Rocky Mountains,
is not adapted by fertility of soil, a favorable climate, and natural advantages of internal
communication, for the support of a prosperous colony of England.

The Parliamentary investigation had a wider scope.

On the 31st of July, 1857, the committee reported a large body of testimony, but without any
decisive recommendations. They "apprehend that the districts on the Red River and the Saskatchewan
are among those most likely to be desired for early occupation," and "trust that there will
be no difficulty in effecting arrangements between her Majesty's government and the Hudson
Bay Company, by which those districts may be ceded to Canada on equitable principles, and within
the districts thus annexed to her the authority of the Hudson Bay Company would of course entirely
cease." They deemed it "proper to terminate the connection of the Hudson Bay Company with Vancouver
Island as soon as it could conveniently be done, as the best means of favoring the development
of the great natural advantages of that important colony; and that means should also be provided
for the ultimate extension of the colony over any portion of the adjacent continent, to the
west of the Rocky Mountains, on which permanent settlement may be found practicable."

These suggestions indicate a conviction that the zone of the North American continent between
latitudes 49° and 55°, embracing the Red River and the Saskatchewan districts, east of the
Rocky Mountains, and the area on their western slope, since organized as British Columbia,
was, in the judgment of the committee, suitable for permanent settlement. As to the territory
north of the parallel of 55°, an opinion was intimated, that the organization of the Hudson's
Bay Company was best adapted to the condition of the country and its inhabitants.

Within a year after the publication of this report, a great change passed over the North Pacific
coast. The gold discovery on Frazer's River occurred; the Pacific populations flamed with excitement;
British Columbia was promptly organized as a colony of England; and, amid the acclamations
of Parliament and people, Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton proclaimed, in the name of the government,
the policy of continuous colonies from Lake Superior to the Pacific, and a highway across British
America, as the most direct route from London to Pekin or Jeddo.

The eastern boundary of British Columbia was fixed upon the Rocky Mountains. The question recurred,
with great force, What shall be the destiny of the fertile plains of the Saskatchewan and the
Red River of the North? Canada pushed forward an exploration of the route from Fort William,
on Lake Superior, to Fort Garry, on the Red River, and, under the direction of S.J. Dawson,
Esq., civil engineer, and Professor J.Y. Hinde, gave to the world an impartial and impressive
summary of the great natural resources of the basin of Lake Winnipeg. The merchants of New
York were prompt to perceive the advantages of connecting the Erie Canal and the Great Lakes--with
the navigable channels of Northwest America, now become prominent and familiar designations
of commercial geography. A report to the New York Chamber of Commerce very distinctly corrected
the erroneous impression, that the valleys of the Mississippi and St. Lawrence rivers exhausted
the northern and central areas which are available for agriculture. "There is in the heart
of North America," said the report, "a distinct subdivision, of which Lake Winnipeg may be
regarded as the centre. This subdivision, like the valley of the Mississippi, is distinguished
for the fertility of its soil, and for the extent and gentle slope of its great plains, watered
by rivers of great length, and admirably adapted for steam-navigation. It has a climate not
exceeding in severity that of many portions of Canada and the Eastern States. It will, in all
respects, compare favorably with some of the most densely peopled portions of the continent
of Europe. In other words, it is admirably fitted to become the seat of a numerous, hardy,
and prosperous community. It has an area equal to eight or ten first-class American States.
Its great river, the Saskatchewan, carries a navigable water-line to the very base of the Rocky
Mountains. It is not at all improbable that the valley of this river may yet offer the best
route for a railroad to the Pacific. The navigable waters of this great subdivision interlock
with those of the Mississippi. The Red River of the North, in connection with Lake Winnipeg,
into which it falls, forms a navigable water-line, extending directly north and south nearly
eight hundred miles. The Red River is one of the best adapted to the use of steam in the world,
and waters one of the finest prairie regions on the continent. Between the highest point at
which it is navigable, and St. Paul, on the Mississippi, a railroad is in process of construction;
and when this road is completed, another grand division of the continent, comprising half a
million square miles, will be open to settlement."

The sanguine temper of these remarks illustrates the rapid progress of public sentiment since
the date of the Parliamentary inquiry, only eighteen months before. Of the same tenor, though
fuller in details, were the publications on the subject in Canada and even in England. The
year 1859 opened with greatly augmented interest in the district of Central British America.
The manifestation of this interest varied with localities and circumstances.

In Canada, no opportunity was omitted, either in Parliament or by the press, to demonstrate
the importance to the Atlantic and Lake Provinces of extending settlements into the prairies
of Assinniboin and Saskatchewan,--thereby affording advantages to Provincial commerce and manufactures
like those which the communities of the Mississippi valley have conferred upon the older American
States. Nevertheless, the Canadian government declined to institute proceedings before the
English Court of Chancery or Queen's Bench, to determine the validity of the charter of the
Hudson's Bay Company,--assigning, as reasons for not acceding to such a suggestion by the law-officers
of the crown, that the proposed litigation might be greatly protracted, while the public interests
involved were urgent,--and that the duty of a prompt and definite adjustment of the condition
and relations of the Red River and Saskatchewan districts was manifestly incumbent upon the
Imperial authority.

This decision, added to the indisposition of Lower Canada to the policy of westward expansion,
is understood to have convinced Sir E.B. Lytton that annexation of the Winnipeg basin to Canada
was impracticable, and that the exclusive occupation by the Hudson's Bay Company could be removed
only by the organization of a separate colony. The founder of British Columbia devoted the
latter portion of his administration of the Colonial Office to measures for the satisfactory
arrangement of conflicting interests in British America. In October, 1858, he proposed to the
directors of the Hudson's Bay Company that they should be consenting parties to a reference
of questions respecting the validity and extent of their charter, and respecting the geographical
extent of their territory, to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The Company "reasserted
their right to the privileges granted to them by their charter of incorporation," and refused
to be a consenting party to any proceeding which might call in question their chartered rights.

Under date of November 3, 1858, Lord Caernarvon, Secretary of State for the Colonies, by the
direction of Sir E.B. Lytton, returned a dispatch, the tenor of which is a key not only to
Sir Edward's line of policy, but, in all probability, to that of his successor, the Duke of
Newcastle. Lord Caernarvon began by expressing the disappointment and regret with which Sir
E.B. Lytton had received the communication, containing, if he understood its tenor correctly,
a distinct refusal on the part of the Hudson's Bay Company to entertain any proposal with a
view of adjusting the conflicting claims of Great Britain, of Canada, and of the Company, or
to join with her Majesty's government in affording reasonable facilities for the settlement
of the questions in which Imperial no less than Colonial interests were involved. It had been
his anxious desire to come to some equitable and conciliatory agreement, by which all legitimate
claims of the Company should be fairly considered with reference to the territories or the
privileges they might be required to surrender. He suggested that such a procedure, while advantageous
to the interests of all parties, might prove particularly for the interest of the Hudson's
Bay Company. "It would afford a tribunal preeminently fitted for the dispassionate consideration
of the questions at issue; it would secure a decision which would probably be rather of the
nature of an arbitration than of a judgment; and it would furnish a basis of negotiation on
which reciprocal concession and the claims for compensation could be most successfully discussed."

With such persuasive reiteration, Lord Caernarvon, in the name and at the instance of Sir E.B.
Lytton, insisted that the wisest and most dignified course would be found in an appeal to and
a decision by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, with the concurrence alike of Canada
and the Hudson's Bay Company. In conclusion, the Company were once more assured, that, if they
would meet Sir E.B. Lytton in finding the solution of a recognized difficulty, and would undertake
to give all reasonable facilities for trying the validity of their disputed charter, they might
be assured that they would meet with fair and liberal treatment, so far as her Majesty's government
was concerned; but if, on the other hand, the Company persisted in declining these terms, and
could suggest no other practicable mode of agreement, Sir E.B. Lytton held himself acquitted
of further responsibility to the interests of the Company, and proposed to take the necessary
steps for closing a controversy too long open, and for securing a definitive decision, due
alike to the material development of British North America and to the requirements of an advancing
civilization.

The communication of Lord Caernarvon stated in addition, that, in the case last supposed, the
renewal of the exclusive license to trade in any part of the Indian territory--a renewal which
could be justified to Parliament only as part of a general agreement adjusted on the principles
of mutual concession--would become impossible.

These representations failed to influence the Company. The Deputy-Governor, Mr. H.H. Barens,
responded, that, as, in 1850, the Company had assented to an inquiry before the Privy Council
into the legality of certain powers claimed and exercised by them under their charter, but
not questioning the validity of the charter itself, so, at this time, if the reference to the
Privy Council were restricted to the question of the geographical extent of the territory claimed
by the Company, in accordance with a proposition made in July, 1857, by Mr. Labouchere, then
Secretary of State for the Colonies, the directors would recommend to their shareholders to
concur in the course suggested; but must decline to do so, if the inquiry involved not merely
the question of the geographical boundary of the territories claimed by them, but a challenge
of the validity of the charter itself, and, as a consequence, of the rights and privileges
which it professed to grant, and which the Company had exercised for a period of nearly two
hundred years. Mr. Barens professed that the Company had at all times been willing to entertain
any proposal that might be made to them for the surrender of any of their rights or of any
portion of their territory; but he regarded it as one thing to consent for a consideration
to be agreed upon to the surrender of admitted rights, and quite another to volunteer a consent
to an inquiry which should call those rights in question.

A result of this correspondence has been the definite refusal of the Crown to renew the exclusive
license to trade in Indian territory. The license had been twice granted to the Company, under
an act of Parliament authorizing it, for periods of twenty-one years,--once in 1821, and again
in 1838. It expired on the 30th of May, 1859. In consequence of this refusal, the Company must
depend exclusively upon the terms of their charter for their special privileges in British
America. The charter dates from 1670,--a grant by Charles II. to Prince Rupert and his associates,
"adventurers of England, trading into Hudson's Bay,"--and is claimed to give the right of exclusive
trade and of territorial dominion to Hudson's Bay and tributary rivers. By the expiration of
the exclusive license of Indian trade, and the termination in 1859 of the lease of Vancouver's
Island from the British government, the sway and influence of the Company are greatly restricted,
and the feasibility of some permanent adjustment is proportionately increased.

There is no necessity for repeating here the voluminous argument for and against the charter
of the Hudson's Bay Company. The interest of British colonization in Northwest America far
transcends any technical inquiry of the kind, and the Canadian statesmen are wise in declining
to relieve the English cabinet from the obligation to act definitely and speedily upon the
subject. The organization of the East India Company was no obstacle to a measure demanded by
the honor of England and the welfare of India; and certainly the parchment of the Second Charles
will not deter any deliberate expression by Parliament in regard to the colonization of Central
British America. Indeed, the managers of the Hudson's Bay Company are always careful to recognize
the probability of a compromise with the government. The late letter of Mr. Barens to Lord
Caernarvon expressed a willingness, at any time, to entertain proposals for the surrender of
franchises or territory; and in 1848, Sir J.H. Pelly, Governor of the Company, thus expressed
himself in a letter to Lord Grey:--"As far as I am concerned, (and I think the Company will
concur, if any great national benefit would be expected from it,) I would be willing to relinquish
the whole of the territory held under the charter on similar terms to those which it is proposed
the East India Company shall receive on the expiration of their charter,--namely, securing
the proprietors an interest on their capital of ten per cent."

At the adjournment of the Canadian Parliament and the retirement of the Derby Ministry, in
the early part of 1859, the position and prospects of English colonization in Northwest America
were as follows:--

