Eu ambhi about, around, over; Dak am in akam over upon; A S and Ger um. Swed om same meaning;
Dak om with, used with plural object only.

A S ni negative; Dak ni prefix in nicha none and base of negative words in shni not combined
with reflexive sa.

PRONOUNS.

The Dak and Algonkin pronouns are amazingly dissimilar; the Dak and I E are remarkably alike.

1st person sing. inflection, ma, mi, m, in I E and Dakota. The Dakotan forms are however oftener
prefixed than suffixed eg; Dak root ha have (Teut aih own) yu formative prefix, 3 yuha he has;
2 duha thou hast; 1 mduha I have; Titon 3 yuha, 2 luha, 1 bluha.

1st p stem. The ga of Lat ego A S, ic etc. appears in Iowa, ka, ke, etc. The chief base of
nearly all the Dak languages is however, ma, mi, corresponding to I E ma, mi; Lat me, mi; Eng
me, etc.

1st dual and Plural stem. I E na, Lat no, Mandan nu; Teut dual onki, Goth ugki, A S unc, Dak
unki and un. The base wa whence we, has become in Dak wa I, in Omaha wi me, in Iowa inflection
plural wa, us, etc.

2d. I E twa has become in Dak ni (cf Swed ni thou). It is however in Omaha thi identical in
sound with our thee, and da, di in most allied languages similar to German du. Dak ya pl yapi
you, and our you are probably also of this base. The Iowa forms the possessive of personal
pronouns like the Icelandic by -i; Icel min my; Iowa min my.

3d person, I, he, she, it, extremely frequent in I E languages, is the base used in all the
Dakotan languages as least partaking of a demonstrative nature. In Dak it is omitted except
when emphatic.

I E sa reflexive and emphatic; Min she, the same. Contracted to s it forms I E nominative;
in Dak, as sh nominatives of i (ish), mi, ni and unki, and occurs in composition; in Min it
forms proper names.

I E sa, ta; Teut tha, this, that; Om the, this; Dak ta, to in many compounds.

I E sawa genitive of sa, ta reflexive possessive for all persons; Dak tawa the same, also ta.
It is in the third person used alone in Dak, but suffixed to i in Minnetaree. All its forms
in Min, and those of the first and second persons in Dak are double possessives analogous to
mine, thine.

Eu ki, kina, that, this, he, she, it; Dak ki, his, her, its, etc. In Nom kana those, etc.;
sing ka that, the vowel is raised as in the Greek keinos. For abridgement of stem in singular
compare our ox, pl. oxen, Nortumbrian oxena, and other relics of stems in na; Teut hina this;
Crow hina this.

From kina, hina, originated the Icelandic and Swedish pastpositive def. article the; likewise
Dak kin postpositive def. article the; ke emphatic pronoun kuns, clf, etc. Of this base A S
stem he, he, she, it; Dak he (pl hena) he, she, it, that.

Slav Teut da this; Dak de (pl dena) this.

I E antara other; Mandan ant that.

I E i demon, pref, this; Dak i.

I E a dem. pref; Min a, o; Dak o.

I E wa pronominal base used in compounds; Dak wa pronominal prefix some, something. Prefix
wo (wa-|-o) forms abstract nouns and nouns of agency.

I E ka int. and rel. pronoun; Pawnee ka interrogative; Dak ka interrogative suffix and in compounds;
Ger wer; Dak tu-we who int. and rel; Gk po; Min tape who, tapa or tako what. I E neuter base
ku what; Dak ta-ku what rel. and int.

I E wika all the whole; Dak wicha them, incorporated objective. Iowa wi; Dak pi plural suffix
seems to be a contraction of this base.

Analogous to A S, accusative mik of ma-|-ga we have; Dak accusative michi, in which the k has
become ch through the influence of i; also the accusatives unki-chi, ni-chi, i-chi.

NUMERALS.

I have compared the Dakotan numerals with all others accessible to me, including some of the
forms of more than five hundred dialects. I can find less than half a dozen American or Turanian
sets that resemble any Dakotan set as much as the English numerals resemble the Hebrew. The
similarity of the Dak to the I E numerals can therefore be accounted for only as the result
of special relationship or of accident. Except as noted below all changes are in accordance
with well sustained laws.

1, A S an, Lith (w)ena; Dak (w)-an, ind. article wanzhi one, wancha one, once.

2, I E dwa; Min d(o)pa; Iowa n(o)wa; Dak n(o)m pa cf A S ta two; Dak ta a pair.

3, I E traya; Iowa tanye; Dak ya -mni [or ya (m) ni?]

4, I E k-atwar; Iowa towa; Dak S topa; Y tom; T tol.

5, I E kankan, kwankwan; Mand kikhun; Dak zaptan?

6, I E kswakswa; Win hakwa; Iowa shagwa; Dak shakpe.

7, A S seowon; Dak shakowin.

8, I E aktu, Gk hokto; Dak Y sh-akdo-ghan; Sant sh-ahdo-ghan.

9, I E nawan; Dak na (pchi) wan-ka.

10, I E dwakan; Lat decem; Dak wikchem-na.

5, I E k = Dak z otherwise sustained but not proved. Kw = kp = tp = pt, t and k being interchangeable
before labials in Dak.

7, Neither A S seowon nor Dak shakowin are legitimately deducible from saptan. Perhaps sakan,
sakwan was the true base.

8, Either Gk h or Dak sh may equal I E s. Dak d for I E t is rare but S. hd, Y. kd is a favorite
combination.

9, I cannot explain inserted pchi.

10, In Dak m and n are interchangeable before labials, but m for I E n is here unsupported.[I]
D cannot stand before w in Dak.

     FOOTNOTES:

     [Footnote I: Whitney Skt Gr 487 appears to regard m, as in
     Latin decem, the original nasal.]

VOCABULARY.

The table of sound representation heretofore given serves to compare the materials of the main
body of the Dak with Fick's I E bases. The results are, however, in many cases ambiguous. Besides
the number of accidental resemblances of the Dakotan to the I E languages seems, to be much
greater than the whole number of similarities between Dakotan and Algonkin languages. Dak anapta
is identical with I E anapta in sound, closely similar in meaning. Dak a-na-pta is prep. a
= Icel a on, na prefix converting root to verb, and pta separate; cf I E pat fall, also open
(Lat pateo). I E an-apta is an negative prefix, and apta participle of ap attain. My father
compared Dak chepa fat with Lat adeps. I have since found Min idip fat almost identical with
Lat stem adipi. I E and Lat d and p are nearly always d and p in Min; but it is extremely doubtful
whether the words are related. On the other hand there is little apparent similarity between
Eu karpya shoe, and Dak hanpa shoe; but the Dak word represents the Eu as accurately as possible;
similar forms are found in every Dakotan language, and it seems scarcely possible to me that
the similarity can be accidental.

In giving a few additional examples of similar roots I select those that are the most obvious,
rather than the most certain. I exclude those not in accordance with sound representation,
and the analogies of such allied Dakotan and I E forms as are known to me.

Where the Dakotan forms are not used as separate words it is indicated by a hyphen, before,
if used alone as a verb stem, after if it requires suffixes. Where the root is found primarily
combined with only one suffix or prefix the derivative form is given. In some cases the Dak
root has one of the meanings given in one combination, another in another.

Eu i go; Dak i go.

Aryan u mangle; Min u wound; Dak o.

Eu ak tell, relate; Dak o(y)-aka.

Eu aka mother; Min ika mother.

Eu ap attain; Dak ape wait for, expect.

Eu ad; Icel eta eat; Dak ta eat.

Eu as be; Ital, Alb, Pers e is; Dak e is, -esh be it so.

Eu as mouth, asta lips; Dak i mouth, ishti the under lip.

Eu unk dwell; Dak un dwell, be; unkan be, unkan and, (act part for unkant continuing.)

Eu ka bend, curl, kak (for kaka) laugh; Min ka laugh; Dak kha bend, curl, i-khakha laugh.

Eu kak be injurious, Gk kakos bad; Mand khekosh bad; Crow kawi bad; Dak shicha bad?

Eu ka and; Dak ka and.

I E ka, kan, kar desire; Dak kon desire.

I E ka, kar, gar honor; Dak kan honor.

I E ka, ga know; Min eke know; Dak ka mean, signify.

Eu ka pierce, cut in; Dak ka dig.

Eu kat cover; Dak o-kati, o in, kati cover.

Eu kap take hold of; Dak yu-kapa catch as a ball, kapa surpass.

Eu kam; Teut him bend, curve, arch; Dak S-hmi, Y-kmi curve; S hmi-hma, Y kmikma round.

Eu kas rub against, scratch; Dak kashe rub against, kaza pick to pieces.

Eu skar, kar shave off; Dak ka strip off, as the feather part of a quill.

Eu ki, gi possess by force; Dak ki take by force.

Eu ki, kit seek; Dak a-kita seek.

Teut han waver, hang; Dak -han hang, totter, waver.

Teut haf lift, heave; Dak -ha lift, heave.

Teut hata hate; Dak -hiti hate.

Teut hama the hull; Dak ha the hull.

Teut hiwan related of the same family. Icel hjun household; O. H. G. hun both husband and wife;
Dak hun- of the same family, also hun mother.

Teut kan, kin beget, germinate; Goth kuni related; Dak ku suffix kin, root ku-, kin-, chin-
in many derivatives. Goth kwino woman; Dak wino.

Eu gha open out, whence gate, gape; Dak -gha, ghapa, ghata open out.

Eu ghagh move convulsively; Dak gheghe swing the arms like a drunken man.

Eu ghans goose; Win wighanna, Mandan mihan, Dak magha goose.

Eu ghans be rough; Min -gha, Dak kha be rough.

Eu tap press; Min tapi press; Dak -tpa.

Eu tarp satisfy; Dak tpa satisfying, etc.

Eu tan thunder; Dak o-tin thunder.

Icel taka take, touch, fasten; Dak yu-taka take, touch, na-taka fasten.

Eu da know, dak show, suppose; Dak da, daka think, regard, have an opinion.

Eu da give; Dak da ask.

Eu di go, hasten; Min di go, travel.

Eu du go forth; Dak du-za run.

Eu dup sink in, our dive; Dak dopa mire; Min dipi bathe.

Eu nu now; Dak i-nu suddenly, na-ka now, wan-na now.

Eu nar man; Om no, nu man.

Eu pak, Gk pakto- bind; Dak pakhta bind.

Eu pat press; Min pati press.

Eu pat fill up, crowd; Dak in pta-ya together.

Eu pa swallow nourish; Dak -pa- nourish papa the nourishment, Min pe swallow, take nourishment.

Eu pap swell up, puff out; Dak popa swell burst.

Eu par divide (our part); Dak a-pa a part.

Eu pi hate; Crow -pi hate.

Eu pik pierce; Min pi tatoo, -pi pierce.

Eu pu dry; Dak pu- dry.

Icel fok our fog; Dak po fog, mist, steam, etc.

Icel finn, Swed, Nor, M. H. G. fin, Dan, Sax finn, O. Du fijn M Eng fine; Win pin, Dak -pi,
Iowa pi good, perfected.[J]

Eu bub (of bu) make a noise; Dak -bu make a noise, bubu noisy.

Teut and Ir bata boat; Min mati, bati, Cr bashe, Dak wata boat.

Teut blas flame, our blaze; T Dak bleza clear, transparent.

Lat and Gr bison from Teut; Crow bishe the bison; Dak pte.

Lat and Gr mamma the mother breast; Dak mama the mother breast.

Eu man remain; Dak man remain, stay.

Sclav Teut man go, step; Dak mani walk.

Eu magh grow; Ir magh field; Dak magha field.

Teut marka limit, boundary, territory of a tribe; Dak maka the ground, the earth, makoche country.

Eu ya go; Dak ya go.

Eu rup break; Min dupi, rupi break.

A S throte the throat; T Dak lote, S dote throat.

Eu wak say, speak, wad speak, sing; Gk wepos word; Dak wo-wa-pi that related by pictures and
writing, root wa in various compounds, relate, count, write, sing, etc. (Gk p is root, Dak
p suffix.)

Eu wagh carry, our way; Dak o-we way, trail.

Eu wad flow forth, our wet; Dak wi-wi a marsh, a springy place.

Eu wasu good; Dak wash-te good.

Teut wantra winter; Dak wani- winter.

Icel wakta watch, guard; Dak wakta watch, guard.

Teut widu wood; Min mida, bida wood.

Eu sa refrain from; Crow suffix sa the same.

Teut swa, Old Fris sa like as; Dak se like as.

Eu sak divide, cut; Min tsaki divide cut.

Eu sama summer; Min tsame hot, very warm.

Eu si bind; Min -shi bind; Dak -shi command.

Swed si! lo! behold! Dak. shi! hark!

Eu su good; Dak -su good.

Eu suk suck; Min tsuki, Dak zoka suck.

I E ska shine; Lat candidus white; Dak ska white shining.

I E ska separate; Dak ksa separate.

I E ska kill, Gk kten- kill; Dak kte kill.

