"No," snarled the master. "By the time you came back with them, if you got them, ten chances
to one I shouldn't want them. When I want things, I want them at once. Yes, I'd give five dollars
for some fresh water-cresses this very minute;" and he again seized his wig and flourished
it in the air.

With trembling fingers Cissy opened the gate, and walked in. The servant-man placed the camp-chair
on the ground. The old gentleman sat down in it, first hanging his hair on the back, leaving
his head as smooth and shining as an ivory ball, looked at the intruder with keen black eyes,
and asked, sharply, "Well, what do you want?"

"To give you these water-cresses," she said, with a smile, holding up her apron. "They were
gathered only a short time ago, and my apron's quite clean, sir."

"Bless me!" exclaimed the old gentleman, "what a wonderful coincidence! and"--taking a bunch
and beginning to eat them--"what fine water-cresses! And I suppose you expect that five dollars,
for of course you heard what I said."

"No, sir," said Cissy, shyly, "I never thought of the money. I know you only said that as people
often say things. I'm glad to give them to you, sir, because you wanted them so much."

The old gentleman burst into a loud laugh, put on his wig, and asked her name. And then by
degrees he got the whole story from her--the death of the father, the accident that lamed the
mother, the gift of the cresses from Frank Hillborn, and the five miles yet to go in search
of work. "And what was your mother's name before she was married?" was his last question.

"Prudence Kelly, sir."

"Prudence Kelly! I knew it!" he shouted, springing from his chair. And then, in a still louder
voice, he called, "Grace! Grace!" and a pretty young lady came running toward him. "I've found
your old nurse, my dear, your faithful old nurse that we have lost sight of for years. This
is her daughter. And she is in want. Take the carriage and go to her at once. What a blessing
that I got up in a scolding humor this morning, and wanted water-cresses! Go with Grace, Cecilia
my child, and when you get home, give this five-dollar bill to your friend Frank, and tell
him it isn't the first time a little act of kindness has brought luck."

Very soon after General Washington was elected President a war broke out between France and
England. It was natural that people in this country should wish to help the French, who had
helped us. But General Washington saw that if we once got in the way of taking a part in wars
between other countries, where our own rights were not in danger, we should always be at war.
He saw, too, that we were a small nation then, compared to the nations of Europe, and that
we might easily lose the freedom we had fought so long for. He dreaded to put our freedom in
danger unless compelled to. So he issued an order to the people, as he had a right to do, not
to take part with one nation or the other, but to mind their own business.

This was wise, because the British government was only too ready to pick a quarrel with us.
General Washington also went further. He made a treaty of peace and commerce with Great Britain,
which kept war from our shores for twenty years, and gave the country a chance to grow. The
people did not like this treaty much. There was a great deal of ill-feeling toward Great Britain,
growing out of the long fight we had had with her. But General Washington, who was ready to
fight for real rights, felt that it was wrong to get into a quarrel from mere angry feeling.
He was very anxious to keep the two countries at peace until their people could get calm, and
go to trading with each other, and learn to live together in friendship. Surely this was both
sensible and good. It was fortunate for the country that a man was at the head of its government
wise enough to see what was right, and firm enough to do it.

Just at the time Washington was elected President, the French people rose against their government,
which had many faults, and drove away many of their rulers, and cut off their King's head.
Among the leaders was Lafayette, who, however, was no party to the cruelties which were practiced.
The other kings of Europe undertook to restore the King of France to power, and in the war
which followed Lafayette was taken prisoner and closely confined. His wife wrote to Washington,
asking him to try and get Lafayette released. Washington gladly did all that he could, but
it was of no use. However, he sent money to Madame Lafayette, for her property had been taken
away, and he brought over to this country one of Lafayette's sons, and took him into his family,
and cared for him as if he were his own. The boy was named after Washington, and always remembered
the President's kindness with thankfulness.

When the first term of four years for which Washington was elected came to an end, he was chosen
again, without a single vote against him, though he was very anxious to go back to private life.

Finally, at the end of his second term, when he had been eight years President, he refused
to serve any longer. Just as he had written a farewell address to his soldiers, after being
eight years in command, he now wrote a farewell address to the American people. I hope all
my young readers will read it as soon as they are old enough to understand it. It is written
in a quaint and somewhat stiff style, for Washington always found it easier to act than to
talk or write; but it is full of wisdom. Even now, eighty-four years after it was written,
there is much in it which we ought to remember and try to carry out.

It was the spring of 1797 when Washington gave up the President's office, and returned to Mount
Vernon. He had visited his beloved home frequently during his Presidency, and had kept a very
careful watch over it in his absence. Again he took up with great delight the old round of
peaceful duties. Every day he was up before the sun. Every day he was in the saddle, riding
over his large farms, watching his laborers and his crops, planning changes and directing work.
In the evening he saw much company--many, indeed, who had little claim on him, who came from
idle curiosity, and wearied him with their presence. But he was always courteous. He enjoyed
the society of his family and friends very keenly. He had no children of his own, but he had
reared first the children, and afterward two of the grandchildren, of his wife in his home.
He took great pleasure with them, and was as merry as he was loving. He hoped to live the remainder
of his days in quiet in this circle.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

LITTLE FATIMA.

BY SARA KEABLES HUNT.

It was a beautiful Oriental picture, and I paused in my walk along the banks of the Nile to
sketch her, that dark-eyed Arab girl, as she half reclined in the sand, the western sunlight
flickering through the green boughs of a clump of palms, and falling upon the upturned face
and purplish braids with their glitter of gold coins. In the background were a few broken columns,
relic of some past grandeur, and at a little distance a camel crouched in the sand, gazing
as mournfully as the Sphynx across the desert. The flowing Eastern dress of the child was pushed
back from one beautifully rounded arm, but the other was concealed, as if she had tried to
hide it from even the sunlight. It was crippled and pitifully deformed.

Poor little Fatima! I knew her sensitive spirit, and I put my pencil out of sight as I came
nearer, for I saw on her face the shadow of a restless discontent. She smiled as she bade me
welcome, but it was a sad smile, and changed to tears as she spoke.

"I am of no use," she said in Arabic. "If I were a boy, they would care for me; but a girl!
They scorn me and my disfigured arm. I can never do any good in the world; never, never. And,
oh, lady, there is a soul within me that longs to do something for somebody! I want to accomplish
something; not to sit here day after day making figures in the sand, only to see them drift
back again into a dull level. But I shall live in vain. What can I do with this poor crippled arm?"

It was a difficult task to soothe her; but I think, after awhile, she felt that the great Allah
had done all things well, and peace crept over her tired little heart.

"But, dear child," I said, as I left her, "it may be that you can do more good with your one
arm than I ever can with my two. We do not know what may happen."

And so I went home to my little cottage, taking the field path instead of the railroad track,
as I usually did. When I reached the house, and called for my little girl-baby, who often came
toddling out to meet me, all was silent, and in answer to my inquiries the nurse said she had
just gone down the track a little way to meet me.

"Down the track! Oh, the train! the train! It's time for the train! Why do you stand here idle?
Call Hassan and Mahomet. Run, and save her!"

I rushed wildly along the embankment. How plain it all is to me now, even to the bits of pottery
gleaming in the sand, and the distant echo of an Arab's song as it floated over the hills!
I saw the white dress of my darling far ahead, and stumbled on--how, I hardly knew. The train
was coming! I could hear it plunging on; I could see the fearful light. Oh, if I might reach her!

But who is that? Can it be Fatima? It is Fatima, waving her arms wildly as she speeds onward.
She is on the bank! She is there! She grasps the child! And the train plunges past me with
a wild glare; and there, before me, is my baby, my golden-haired baby, safe and unharmed, but
Fatima lay dying on the iron rail. I clasped her to my heart, and called her name amid my sobs.
She lifted the long, dark eyelashes, and smiled. "Allah be praised!" she murmured. Then in
her weak, broken English she said:

"Me do something wid dis poor arm; me die for you baby!" She fell back in my arms; and so we
carried her to my home, white and insensible.

But she did not die. The deformed arm had to be severed from the shoulder, but her life was
saved; and to-day, surrounded by all that grateful hearts can give, she is one of the happiest
little creatures on the banks of the Nile.

A ST. ULRIC DOLL.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE CATSKILL FAIRIES."

The steam-ship Columbine was crossing the ocean from Liverpool to New York. On the deck the
passengers walked about, looking at the sea and sky. Occasionally they saw a flock of gulls
circling about overhead, or a shoal of dolphins leaping up in the blue waves. Among these passengers
was the shy gentleman. Now the shy gentleman was tall and large, with a full brown beard, which
should have made him quite bold, but he was not. If a stranger spoke to him, he blushed, and
if he tried to say something really wise, he merely stammered, so that his meaning was lost.
As for tea-cups and wine-glasses, he always broke them with his elbow, or by allowing them
to slip through his big fingers, while chairs and little tables seemed placed in his way for
the sole purpose of his tumbling over them.

In his cabin was his portmanteau, filled with all sorts of treasures. A Paris doll and her
wardrobe were given the place of honor. The beautiful blonde hair of this fashionable lady
must not be disarranged, and the boxes containing her dresses and gloves, her boots, mantles,
and parasols, required much space. She was a very important person. In a corner was wedged
the case of one of those mechanical bears covered with black fur, and wound up by means of
a key in his side. In the opposite corner were the Venetian lion of St. Mark, made of brass,
trinkets of straw and glass, and a little Neapolitan boy in mosaic on the lid of a box. The
St. Ulric doll, folded in a bit of tissue-paper, had been allowed to fall down anywhere. She
was made of a single stick of wood, with a head carved on top, but without arms or legs, like
the Italian babies, who are wound about with cloths until they resemble little mummies.

She remained quietly where she had been placed, between a flannel waistcoat and a pair of stockings,
with her head resting on a meerschaum pipe. She thought of her home, and sighed. Yes, she was
homesick, because she loved her own land as only the Tyrolese and the Swiss love their native
mountains.

The shy gentleman had bought the St. Ulric doll at a booth under the stone archway of one of
the streets of Botzen. He could not carry away with him the beautiful Austrian Tyrol, except
as pictures in his own mind, and therefore he picked up the droll and ugly little St. Ulric doll.

"When I give the doll to Nelly, I will tell her about the mountain peaks where the hunters
climb to shoot the chamois and the black-cock, and the valleys down toward Italy where the
grapes ripen, and all about the castles perched like watch-towers along the Brenner route,"
thought the shy gentleman, wrapping the purchase in the bit of tissue-paper. "I must not forget
to add that this Brenner Pass, where the traveller of to-day journeys on the railway from Munich
to Verona, is one of the oldest highways in the world; the Etruscan merchants used to pass
here, trading in iron with the Northern nations, long before the Romans."

One day a tremendous rattling was heard inside the case of the mechanical bear.

"What is the matter? Are you seasick?" inquired the lion of St. Mark.

"No," grumbled the mechanical bear. "I have been standing on my head too long, and if this
voyage does not soon end, my machinery will be out of order. I shall growl at the wrong time."

"We must be gifts for children. I hope they will like us," said the St. Ulric doll.

"I hope we shall like them," said the French doll. "I come from a shop window on the Boulevard
des Italiens. How can I live out of Paris!"

Just then the lid of the portmanteau was lifted, and a Custom-house officer looked in. The
steamer had reached New York.

"Here he is, mamma!" cried a little girl, as a carriage paused before the door of a house on
Gramercy Square.

She had been looking out of the window. Now she ran down stairs, and opened the front door.
Two gentlemen got out of the carriage; one was her uncle Fred, and the other a traveller with
a brown beard, whose arms were full of mysterious parcels and boxes. This was the shy gentleman,
and Nelly had always found him a good friend. Soon the parcels were distributed. The mosaic
box was for mother, the brass lion for Uncle Fred, and all the rest for Nelly. She was wild
with delight. The Paris doll fascinated her. All her friends were invited to admire the lady
from the Boulevards. Nelly could not eat, or sleep, or study her lessons. She tried on all
the dresses, gloves, bonnets, and shoes.

The St. Ulric doll had been glanced at, laid on the table, and forgotten. At length Nelly wearied
of so much splendor, and her mother found the Paris doll too fine for every-day play. Nelly
noticed the St. Ulric doll then.

"You have no clothes, poor thing," she said.

She opened her own work-box, sought in a bag for a piece of blue flannel, and began to sew.
Soon the St. Ulric doll was clothed. To be sure, her gown was like a bag tied about her neck.

Nelly's mother, a pretty widow, said, "I did not know he loved me."

Nelly whispered to the St. Ulric doll that her mother was to marry the shy gentleman.

"I thought there was a good reason for bringing us across the sea," said the St. Ulric doll
to the mechanical bear and the Paris lady.

The latter was out of temper.

"Already the little girl loves you best, because she has made your gown herself," she said.

THE GRIZZLY BEAR.

The grizzly bear is the most terrible of all beasts. Its great strength, its enormous size,
its ferocity, and its courage render it a more formidable enemy than the lion. It ranges the
westward-lying slopes of the Rocky Mountains from Mexico to British America, and is a constant
terror to the regions it inhabits.

The average length of the grizzly bear is about seven feet, and its weight nine hundred to
a thousand pounds, although much larger specimens have been killed in Arizona and other Southern
regions.

Grizzlies do not often attack men unless surprised or infuriated, or driven by desperate hunger
to seize upon everything which crosses their path; but all animals, from a mouse to an enormous
buffalo, fall an easy prey to this monarch of the far West.

The immense daring of the grizzly bear, and its entire confidence in its strength, are evident
from the fact that it will not hesitate to attack buffaloes even when a whole herd are together.
It has been known to kill a buffalo with one blow of its terrible fore-paw, and afterward to
drag it away and bury it. It can easily dig a hole with its cimeter-like claws, and it usually
buries what it can not devour, as a store to fall back upon when provisions are scarce.

Hunters tell many stories of sharp contests between grizzlies and buffaloes. The bear will
prowl by the side of a herd, keeping under cover of the bushes until some big fat fellow comes
within easy reach, when it rushes on its victim, and with one blow fells it to the ground.
The other buffaloes may rush to the rescue of their comrade, but the powerful grizzly is generally
a match for them all, and instances are rare where the savage beast has been driven to crawl
away defeated.

The claws of this beast are longer than a man's finger, and are very much prized as ornaments
by the Indians. To wear a necklace of bear's claws, taken from an animal killed by himself,
is one of the highest ambitions of an Indian brave; for if he is thus decorated, his courage
and superior strength are acknowledged by his whole tribe. An Indian will sell his horses,
his blankets, everything he possesses, but nothing can induce him to part with his bear-claw
necklace, which marks him as an invincible warrior. To obtain this coveted prize Indians will
run the most extreme risks. Are the enormous foot-prints of a grizzly discovered in the vicinity
of the camp, the men all set out in hot pursuit, and many a poor Indian has lost his life in
fierce encounter with this monarch of the mountains. If the bear can be traced to its den among
the rocks, the Indians will lay trails of powder leading from the lair in different directions,
which, as they burn, set fire to the dry grass and stubble. As the animal, startled by the
smoke and flame, rushes from its hiding-place, the Indians, who lie concealed behind rocks
and bushes, pelt it with blazing pine knots, and fire volley after volley from their rifles
into its body, until some lucky shot enters the heart or brain, and the monster staggers and
falls dead to the ground.

This beast has a strong hold on life, and has often been known to run with great speed, and
even to swim deep rivers, with twenty or more large rifle-balls in its body. It is so difficult
to kill, and so furious when aroused, that a hunter will never attack the grizzly single-handed
if the encounter can be avoided. The hunter may escape by climbing a tree; for although young
grizzlies can climb like a cat, the old bears can do nothing more than stand on their hind-legs
in vain endeavors to reach the branches where the man lies concealed, and growl spitefully.
Their extreme heaviness, however, is thought by the Indians to be all that prevents them from
climbing.

A hunter once took refuge in a tree from one of these savage beasts, and having vainly discharged
all his ammunition at the monster, he endeavored to hit it in the eye with cones, thinking
to drive it away. But the grizzly only became more infuriated, and began a brisk war-dance
around the tree, howling all the while in a terrible manner. At length the branch upon which
the hunter was sitting began to give way, and the unfortunate man felt himself doomed to certain
death. Closing his eyes, he resigned himself to the worst, when, instead of falling, as he
expected, into the open jaws of the huge beast, he, together with the heavy branch upon which
he had been sitting, landed with a tremendous thump upon the grizzly's head. The animal was
so astonished and frightened at this sudden and unexpected assault, that it took to its heels,
and soon disappeared in the forest. Such miraculous escapes, however, are not frequent, and
the number of Indians and hunters killed by grizzlies is very large.

Young grizzlies have often been captured, and when very small are as playful and affectionate
as dogs. But they are not to be trusted, for as they grow older, their savage nature develops,
and they are liable to become dangerous property. Unless they can be surprised away from the
mother, their capture is attended by the utmost peril. Nothing can exceed the fury of the mother
bear if her little ones are molested. Rising on her hind-legs for a moment to survey the object
of her hatred, she will utter a hoarse "huff, huff, huff," and charge madly, and wary and courageous
must be the hunter who can overcome this savage monster.

Hunting the grizzly is usually accomplished by parties of men well mounted, and with bands
of trained dogs, but the huge beast will make a desperate fight for its life, and often severely
wounds numbers of its assailants before being forced itself to succumb.

]

MINIATURE YACHTS.

On the preceding page is an illustration of a miniature yacht regatta on the Lake in Prospect
Park, Brooklyn. In that beautiful Park there are few sights to be seen as beautiful as this.
The dainty yachts, perfect in every detail, look like graceful white-winged birds skimming
over the water, and the announcement of a regatta on the Lake often attracts more spectators
than similar announcements of "grown-up" regattas down the bay. Many of these spectators are
very critical, and attend these regattas in order to study fine points of sailing, and to learn
what models will show the greatest speed.

The little yachts are so carefully planned and built that they often serve as models for those
of many tons. Some of the finest yachts of the New York, Brooklyn, Atlantic, and Seawanhaka
Yacht Clubs are built from models furnished by winners of races and regattas on the lakes of
Central and Prospect Parks.

Two regularly organized and officered clubs, the New York and Brooklyn Miniature Yacht Clubs,
are the rivals of these lakes, and many exciting match races are sailed between the flyers
of the two clubs. These races and all the regattas are governed by the regular rules of yachting,
time allowances being made for differences of measurement, and the amount of canvas allowed
each boat, as well as the course to be sailed, being accurately defined.

Of the miniature yachts, schooners of the first class are generally about sixty inches long,
are heavily sparred--that is, they have very tall masts, long booms, and bow-sprit--and are
ballasted with very deep and heavy lead keels. They are either "built" or "cut"--that is, ribbed
and planked, or worked out from a single block of wood.

They carry rudders merely to make them look ship-shape, and are steered entirely by their sails.
These are so arranged as to balance fore and aft, and the jib and main sheets are made of elastic
rubber, so nicely adjusted that if the boat is inclined to sail too close to the wind, the
main-sheet stretches, the mainsail is eased off, and she resumes her proper course, with the
wind free. If she is inclined to "fall off" too much, and run before the wind, the jib-sheet
stretches, the wind spills out of the jib, and the pressure upon her aftersails quickly brings
her up on the wind again.

The fleet at Prospect Park this season numbers some fifty sail, from sixty-inch schooners down
to ten-inch cat-boats, and contains schooners, sloops, cat-boats, catamarans, and one square-rigged
steamer. An English cutter will probably be added to the fleet very soon, and interesting races
between her and the boats of American model are expected.

EASY BOTANY.

JUNE.

June has many beautiful flowering trees, and many rare and remarkable plants. Some of the anemones
bloom in April and May, but several wait for June. Among these the rare red anemone is found
on rocky banks in Western Vermont, in Northern New York, and Pennsylvania.

Among the pines and maples of Cape Ann, at Manchester, Massachusetts, we find the laurel-magnolia,
or sweet-bay, with silky leaves and buds, and deliciously fragrant cream-white flowers. This
charming shrub seems to belong to the South, but has strangely strayed away, and made for itself
a cozy home on the "stern and rock-bound coast" of New England. This magnolia also grows in
Pennsylvania and Southern New York.

Belonging to the same fair family is the tulip-tree, with large tulip-shaped flowers tinged
with yellow, orange, and green. These trees are found in rich soil in the Middle, Southern,
and Western States.

Another wonderful plant of June is the large water-lily the Nelumbo luteum, or water-chinquepin.
This plant apparently belongs to the East Indies, and seems to be nearly related to the pink
lotus, or sacred bean of India. The American species is rare, being found at but few places;
but Connecticut professes to possess it in the Connecticut River, near Lyme; and it is found
in the Delaware River, near Philadelphia, at Woodstown and Swedesborough, New Jersey, and in
several Western lakes. The leaves are circular, from one to two feet in diameter, and raised
high above the water; the fragrant flowers are pale yellow; the seeds, sunk deeply in a receptacle,
are as large as acorns.

Our own beautiful white pond-lily is well known and well beloved; and few New-Englanders are
unfamiliar with the serene ponds and still waters where the lily pods make a carpet on which
rest the lovely heads of these delicious favorites.

At Sandwich and Barnstable, Massachusetts, and Kennebunk, Maine, are found lilies of a fine
rose-color. The common cow-lily, as it is called, though not a beauty like its relatives, is
a pleasing variety, being of a rich yellow color.

Next we come to the wonderful pitcher-plants, whose chosen homes are in the black mud of peat-bogs
and swamps.

The one with which we are most familiar is favored not only with a botanical name of seven
syllables, but has the common names of side-saddle-flower, pitcher-plant, and hunter's-cup--all
referring more or less to the curious leaves, which are hollow, and shaped like little pitchers,
and are always found partly filled with water. The flower, nodding on a tall stalk, is as singular
as the leaves; it is of a deep reddish-purple color, the petals arching over a little green
umbrella in the centre, which covers the stamens. This striking and interesting plant may be
easily found by any enterprising young botanist who is not afraid of mud and water, as it grows
from Maine to Illinois and southward.

Another queer little dweller in bogs and swamps and wet meadows is the sundew, one species
of which may be found in June, and others later. The leaves of this peculiar plant are covered
with fine reddish-brown hairs, or glands, which furnish small drops of fluid, glittering like
dew-drops.

