  But Mother often laughs at me
    For getting such a scare;
  And, somehow, when she goes to see,
    The tiger's never there!

MARVELS OF MAN'S MAKING.

IV.--THE BRIDGE AT VICTORIA FALLS.

If a railway train could travel over a rainbow, it would hardly have been necessary to build
a bridge over the Zambesi River at the Victoria Falls, for during seven months of the year
a rainbow can always be seen there; but about the end of August the fairy architects take it
down, and do not come to build it again until the beginning of February. The rainbow is made
by the sunlight shining on the dancing drops of spray that leap from the waterfall while the
river is in flood. But when, after the end of August, the flood subsides, the spray subsides
too, and the lovely rainbow fades from sight until the rainy season has returned.

This mighty river collects its waters over a space of a million square miles, but on its way
to the sea is met by many difficulties. The greatest of these occurs near Kazungula, on the
borders of Rhodesia, and is known by the natives as the 'place of the sounding smoke.' David
Livingstone, who, fifty years ago, was the first white man to see it, called it the Victoria
Falls, and has told the world how he crept to the edge of the awful abyss and peered over in
the vain effort to see the bottom through that roaring, blinding cloud of 'sounding smoke.'
Long, long ages ago a terrible earthquake occurred at this spot, and from shore to shore of
the Zambesi (which is here more than a mile wide) a huge crack, one hundred yards across, suddenly
opened. Into this the river disappears with a mighty thunder, as though to lose itself in the
centre of the earth. Four hundred feet down the bottom of the chasm is reached, and, beating
themselves against the opposite wall, the waters struggle to find an outlet, throwing up in
their fury white clouds of spray, which rise to a height of one thousand two hundred feet,
and can be seen for a distance of ten miles.

Near the eastern end of the mile-long crack, there is an opening in the form of a narrow gorge
one hundred yards wide, twisting and twining in the most erratic manner for more than twenty
miles to the southward. And through this, imprisoned by rocky cliffs four hundred feet high,
the boiling Zambesi struggles on its way to the sea. On the lip of the cataract, as though
carried to the edge by the flowing waters, hang green wooded isles, glittering with the ever-falling
spray and waving light fronds of fern and palm, in the cool airs that are constantly being
driven by the falls from the depths below them. It is a spot of great beauty, and it is no
wonder that many people expressed regret when they learned that the railway was fast approaching,
and would leap across the gorge through which the waters escape. But after all, in a scene
of such magnitude, we may hope that the railway will show no more than a scratch in the wide
sea-sands.

The spot chosen for the bridge is some four hundred yards below the falls, and, owing to the
sudden bends in the channel, the merest glimpse only can be caught of the falling water.

Sir Charles Metcalf, engineer of the Rhodesian Railway Company, having surveyed the place,
made a design for the bridge, and a firm of engineers in Darlington, England, undertook to
build it. In the meantime, the railway at Buluwayo, three hundred miles away, had been continued
to the edge of the gorge in readiness to convey the material.

It was decided that the bridge should be in the form of an arch made of steel girders, the
central span being five hundred feet. The work was begun in October, 1904. First a pair of
'shear legs' was erected on the southern side opposite the place where the railway from Buluwayo
ended. This is a mechanical contrivance of the nature of a crane, capable of being raised and
lowered, and is formed of two or more poles standing some yards apart at their feet, but joined
together at their heads, to support a revolving pulley. To save the loss of time and great
inconvenience of crossing the river above the falls, it became necessary to find some means
of spanning this narrow gorge before beginning to build the bridge. This was accomplished by
firing a sky-rocket from the northern cliff-top with a length of light string attached. To
the end of the string a slightly stouter cord was tied; then a strong rope, and finally a wire
cable two inches thick. Thus, that which could not be done all at once, was done by degrees.
The wire cable, being passed over the pulley on the shear legs, was fastened on the other side
of the gorge to the top of a steel tower, thirty-six feet high.

From this thin aerial railway hung the 'cage' in which the workmen would cross and recross,
and do a great deal of the bridge-building work, being raised and lowered to the required position
by the shear legs. Some feet above the two-inch rope ran an electric wire with a motor engine
which propelled the car backwards and forwards. Thus we may almost say that the first conveyance
across the Zambesi was an electric tram. And the passengers (particularly on the first journey)
were not pleased with the trip. They shrank with pardonable terror when they found themselves
suspended over that awful gulf by a slender cord that swayed against the sky. But use soon
changed all this.

The bridge was begun from both sides at once. In the rocky sides of the cliffs excavations
were made to receive the four upright columns from which the arch would spring. On beds of
concrete poured into these excavations was bolted an iron plate upon which the foot of the
'post' would hinge, so as to allow movement when the iron girders expanded or contracted with
the change of temperature. The 'posts' are one hundred and five feet tall, and the arch which
springs from their feet rises to a height of ninety feet at the centre. As the two ends grew
towards each other across the abyss, it was found that the weight would require support before
the girders met in the middle. To build a scaffolding would of course have been impossible;
so the following means were adopted. Into the rocky ground on both sides of the river, two
holes were bored, each thirty feet deep and thirty feet apart, their bottom ends being connected
by another boring. A strong wire rope was then threaded down one hole and up through the other,
to be carried over the cliff-top and passed under the bridge-end as it hung in mid-air. As
the weight increased the ropes were added to, while, as a further precaution, the ground between
the two holes was loaded with five thousand tons of railway irons. The wire ropes successfully
played their parts until April 1st, 1905, but when the central girder was ready to take its
place, it was found to be an inch and a quarter too long. It had expanded in the heat; but
after a night's cooling it contracted to the right size, and was successfully inserted.

One of the principal difficulties in the erection of this bridge has been the trouble of getting
the material to the spot. From Darlington to the Victoria Falls is eight thousand miles of
ocean, bush, and desert, and sometimes long delay was caused by the railway being washed away
by floods. But once there was interruption from another cause. Many of the English workmen
were unable to stop on account of the climate, and they were constantly drenched by the spray,
until in many cases natives had to be employed in their stead. These natives were housed in
a little settlement of nicely built huts, lighted by electricity. One day, however, the electric
wires caused a fire which destroyed the entire 'town' with astonishing rapidity.

The bridge was opened in August, 1905, on the occasion of the visit of the British Association.
The roadway over it is thirty feet wide, affording room for a double set of rails, and the
panting trains have already begun to cross its web-like span, gliding into sight from the cliff-top
on one side, only to disappear the next moment on the other in a green wilderness of ferns
and tropic flowers.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

IV.--A FIGHT WITH A RHINOCEROS.

It was now Vandeleur's turn to tell his camp-fire story, and he looked so long and so dreamily
into the embers before he began that Denison laughed and said, 'Don't go to sleep, old chap,
before you begin!'

Vandeleur laughed also, good-naturedly.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'm not a bit sleepy (he said) but when I think of Umkopo, one of the best and most faithful
friends I ever possessed, it makes me thoughtful. Umkopo, as the name suggests, had something
to do with the Zulus or Matabeles. His was an extraordinary career, and I may have more to
tell you about him in another yarn; but for the present I will merely tell you this, that,
though he looked scarcely more like a 'nigger' than any of us three, yet, as a matter of fact,
I never for some time really doubted that he was a young Matabele, simply because it never
occurred to me to doubt it under the circumstances. He was a boy of about seventeen when I
first met him--a straight, well-made chap of about Bobby's size and weight, black-haired and
dark-skinned, but not so dark as the ordinary run of Mashonaland natives, about as dark, let
us say, as you and I are at the end of a shooting trip somewhere in the equatorial regions.

Well, I was off some years ago upon a rhinoceros-hunting trip and at the moment in actual pursuit
of a huge beast of greyish tint, a rare colour; this was an animal who had given me the slip
many times, and I was most anxious to secure him. I was encamped somewhere within the district
which he had chosen as his home, but for a week or two I had not been able to hit upon his tracks.

Now this was during the time of the first Matabele war, and I was, as a matter of fact, within
the war-zone. I joined in the fighting a month or two later, finding that men were wanted on
the British side, but at this time I was only hunting.

One day, prowling about the jungle with a Kaffir to carry my cartridges and a spare rifle,
I suddenly came upon an unexpected sight.

A young man, apparently a native, lay by a pool of water at the foot of a tree, breathing,
as it seemed to me, his last breath. He moaned a little when he saw us approaching, and made
a feeble effort to rise and reach the club which lay at his side.

Finding that he was not going to be attacked, he gave up the effort, and lay breathing heavily.

'He is ill,' said I to the Kaffir; 'ask him whether he is in pain, and what ails him.'

The Kaffir knew something of the Bantu-Matabele dialect, and spoke to the man, who replied
in gasps.

'He say,' the Kaffir reported, 'want food; drank bad water, poisoned by Matabeles; better now,
but want eat.'

This was a need which was easily supplied. I had plenty of food with me, biscuits and tinned
tongue, which I had brought for my lunch. I gave him this, and something to drink. He ate and
drank greedily, which nearly choked him. He looked gratefully at me, and I placed him in a
sitting posture with his back to a tree, and gave him a couple of prunes, which were evidently
a novelty to him, and afforded him great delight.

The Kaffir, who rejoiced in the name of Billy, conversed with the young fellow from time to
time, and suddenly Billy burst out laughing; a piece of rude behaviour which greatly shocked
him the next moment, for he placed his hand over his mouth and looked very ashamed of himself.

'What is it, Billy?' I asked him.

'He say his people call him "White Witch,"' said Billy. 'He say, "I t'ink I white man like
your master."'

