With the co-operation of his parishioners, who, day by day were learning to appreciate their
pastor's solid piety, he built two chapels as an addition to the parish church. One of these
he dedicated to St. Philomena, a youthful martyr, whose relics were recovered at Rome in the
beginning of the nineteenth century; the other was placed under the invocation of St. John
the Baptist, and in it stood the confessional of the cure of Ars, the "Mercy Seat," as it were,
of the Almighty, at which untold thousands of souls were reconciled to their Creator.

Despite the fact that the number of his friends and co-workers steadily increased, thus evidencing
the fruitfulness of his labors, Father Vianney in truth looked to God alone for success in
his undertakings. He realized that he was engaged with the evil spirit in a conflict for the
souls of his people and he had read in Holy Writ these words of Jesus Christ: "But this kind
(of evil spirit) is not cast out except by prayer and fasting." (Matthew XVII, 20.)

Upon one occasion he recalled these words to a fellow priest who was lamenting that he could
obtain no results in his parish, although he had done all in his power to rouse his people
from their indifference. Father Vianney said to him: "You have done all in your power? Are
you so sure of it? Did you fast and give alms? Did you pray?"

By these questions Father Vianney indicated what were the practices of his own life, which
enabled him to obtain results little short of miraculous. His charity was boundless. The food,
clothing and other supplies, which the generous Mademoiselle d'Ars sent for the rectory, as
a rule, promptly found their way to the poor and needy. Father Vianney actually kept for himself
only what was barely sufficient to ward off starvation. Even this modicum was frequently given
away, when a poor man came and asked for food.

One evening when Mr. Mandy, the Maire of Ars, came to visit the cure, he found him pale as
death and apparently exhausted. Greatly alarmed, he exclaimed: "Are you ill, Father Vianney?"
"Oh, my good friend," the latter replied, "you are just in time, I have nothing left to eat."
For three days Father Vianney had had no provisions whatever in the house, having bestowed
the last of his potatoes upon a poor mendicant. He partook daily of but one meal and that consisted
generally of boiled potatoes, which he was accustomed to cook in a quantity sufficient to last
through the week, so that oftentimes by Friday or Saturday what remained had become mouldy.
When his relatives came to see him, or if he had other visitors, he took pains to have a plain
meal provided for them. Under no consideration would he allow any mention to be made of his
mortification and self-denial.

As with food so also Father Vianney deprived himself of the various articles of clothing with
which he had been supplied. Being accosted on his way home by a poor man whose feet were bare
and sore, he divested himself of his own shoes and stockings, gave them to the mendicant, and
returned home barefoot.

Vianney was wont to declare jestingly that he had never left his overcoat anywhere. As a matter
of fact he did not possess one, thus fulfilling literally our Lord's words: "He that hath two
coats, let him give to him that hath none!" [*] His colleagues were often displeased at his
poverty-stricken appearance and regarded his shabby clothes as a reflection upon their dignity.
These faultfinders could easily have learned that the patched garments of the hero of brotherly
love commanded the respect of all who knew Vianney's real character. Wherever he appeared he
was received with the utmost respect and cordially greeted by all.

[*] Luke III, 11.

He offered up to God all his mortifications for the welfare of his people, increasing these
exercises habitually as Easter approached, and whenever it was a question of touching the heart
of a hardened sinner. He joined prayer to fasting. At two o'clock in the morning he arose and
said the night-office of the breviary. At four o'clock he entered the church to visit our Lord
in the Blessed Sacrament and then said his Mass. After Mass he gave instruction in catechism
and heard confessions. So steadily was he occupied in this work that he seldom left the church
until noon-time. He devoted the afternoons to visiting the sick and spent the rest of the day
in the church, where, to the edification of all, he held evening devotions in public.

What could the Lord refuse to such self-sacrificing love? Vianney himself used to say: "I obtained
from Him everything that I wanted!"

The progress in the spiritual condition of the congregation at Ars necessarily became known
in the surrounding country and Father Vianney's fellow priests of other parishes begged him
to help them in the pulpit and confessional. These requests Father Vianney never refused, so
that, in the space of two years, he became the real apostle of the cathedral circuit. So great
was the success of his spiritual labors that the faithful who desired his assistance no longer
waited until he should come again to their parishes, but themselves visited him at Ars. Soon
the high road to Ars was filled with pedestrians and vehicles carrying a great number of visitors,
and this procession of pilgrims increased when reports were spread of the miracles which took
place at Ars.

CHAPTER III. THE "HOUSE OF PROVIDENCE" AND THE TRIBULATIONS.

IN 1825, seven years after Father Vianney had been appointed to the parish at Ars, he resolved
upon a new and important undertaking. He wanted to bring together in one home all the neglected
poor and orphan children of Ars and the surrounding country, and to provide at one and the
same time for both their physical and spiritual needs. Facing the village green there stood
a desirable house, which he would gladly have acquired for this purpose. One day he received
from an anonymous donor a considerable sum of money for charitable purposes. He immediately
betook himself to the owner of the house in question, and without much difficulty was enabled
to purchase it. And this was the beginning of the "House of Providence."

As directresses for this home he selected two young women of the parish and placed them in
charge, but without imposing upon them any religious vows. The home soon sheltered many little
ones, either neglected or homeless, who were fed, clothed and cared for, and whose instruction
in the catechism Vianney took upon himself daily. By degrees the grown up parishioners came
to assist at these instructions, which took the place of those which had been held in the parish
church.

This home was maintained by Father Vianney for twenty-five years. For its financial support
he made use of the alms given to him, and it frequently happened that sums of money to be used
in charity were transmitted to him most unexpectedly and at times when the home was in greatest
need. Relief sometimes came in a manner which excludes the idea of human intervention. Among
other incidents observed by many witnesses it is related that one day there was no flour for
the day's supply of bread and no money with which to purchase any. Everyone whom Father Vianney
approached upon this subject seemed either to be unable or unwilling to relieve him, so that
the cure imagined himself almost forsaken.

Never before had he felt so miserable. Then he remembered St. Francis Regis and deciding to
seek heavenly intercession, he took the relics of the saint and carried them to the store-room,
concealing them under the remnant of grain that lay there. Next day the caretakers of the home
came and again reminded the pastor that there was nothing left to eat in the house. Father
Vianney, weeping, exclaimed: "Then we must send our poor children away!" Nevertheless he betook
himself with one of the care-takers to the store-room and, with great anxiety, opened the door,
when, behold the store-room which had been empty was found to be filled with grain.

It was on such an occasion as this that Father Vianney's sanctity manifested itself. Instead
of welcoming this public miracle with joyful satisfaction he felt on the contrary, deeply humiliated,
because of his having previously given way to discouragement. He hastened to the children of
the home and exclaimed in self-accusation "Behold, dear children, I mistrusted the good God.
I was about to send you all away, and for this He has well punished me!"

The report of this miraculous supply of food was quickly circulated. The whole congregation
visited the store-room; everyone could convince himself of the truth of the matter. Later,
Bishop Devie, of Belley, inquired personally into the matter and found the facts to be as above
stated.

Now, great graces in the lives of holy persons are never bestowed without great trials, and
the good cure was no exception to this rule. During the ten years of his ministry he had suffered
from suspicion, distrust and calumny. His enemies had criticised his actions and had held him
up to derision. He had even been threatened with violence. Among those who attacked him were
some of his own colleagues in the ministry, who were greatly angered because their parishioners
flocked in numbers to Ars to ask advice and counsel of one whom they had called the inexperienced
and ignorant priest. Of course Father Vianney's own behavior gave no little reason for their
disparaging opinion of him, for, in his humility, he had several times declared himself to
be a worthless and incapable servant of God, an opinion which undoubtedly he sincerely held.

These aspersions from his colleagues were disseminated among the people, so that many of the
faithful, influenced by the mistaken opinion of their spiritual leaders, took upon themselves
the liberty of defaming their pastor. Some went further and wrote and left at his door notice
containing coarse and dishonorable remarks. To such an extent had these ideas progressed that
some persons attributed the furrows with which penitential works had seamed the brow of the
humble priest to an immoral mode living.

With touching patience and resignation Father Vianney bore those years of bitterness. His zeal
never relaxed for a day, and the interior agony which he suffered was not observable in any
of his pastoral duties. At that time he frequently repeated those memorable and beautiful words:
"We can do more for God when we perform our duties faithfully, without interior gladness and
a certain relish in fulfilling them."

The profound repose of his inner life will appear still more admirable to those who learn what
cunning snares were prepared for him at the same time by the arch enemy of the human race.

When news of the diabolical visitations to which Father Vianney was frequently exposed, reached
his colleagues, they laughed aloud. They declared that he was a dreamer, whose brain was disordered.

With his accustomed composure the humbled cure bore the derision of his colleagues, and of
the faithful who agreed with them. Far from being weakminded, as his associates represented
him to be, Father Vianney at first refused to believe that it was the powers of evil that were
persecuting him and depriving him of his night's rest in order to render him unfit for his
pastoral duties. When the nocturnal rappings became more pronounced, he begged some courageous
men of the parish to assist him in discovering the evildoers or thieves, as he at first considered
them, whose purpose he thought was to carry off some of the costly articles which had been
presented for the parish church. Those men came to keep watch with him, and for many nights
in succession they heard the same sounds which Father Vianney had heard, without seeing any
person or thing to account for them. Like their pastor they were much wrought up over the strange
occurrences.

One winter's night, however, when the rappings upon the front door were louder than usual,
the cure sprang from his bed and hurried to the courtyard, believing that he might find traces
of the marauder in the freshly fallen snow. But there were no foot prints to be seen. Then
Father Vianney no longer doubted that it was Satan that was persecuting him and this conviction
removed all sentiments of fear from his soul, for he knew well how to combat the enemy of God.

These violent satanic assaults were kept up against Father Vianney for the space of thirty-five
years. That a man so tortured and deprived continually of his needed rest, so enfeebled by
the mortifications which he imposed on himself, did not die earlier than his seventy-fourth
year, seems almost more miraculous than the inexhaustible activity of his life.

Meanwhile his enemies had advanced a step further in their efforts to render this zealous pastor's
position precarious. They calumniated him to the bishop of the diocese of Belley, to which
Ars now belonged, saying that their pastor was unfit to be entrusted with the care of souls.
The bishop, however, would not condemn the poor priest without a hearing. He sent his vicar-general
to Ars and informed Father Vianney that in future he must submit to the episcopal jurisdiction
all difficult cases of conscience coming before him as well as the decision he has passed upon
them himself. The investigation was welcomed by Father Vianney, and he very soon submitted
over two hundred cases. Bishop Devie, of Belley, examined these himself and found that the
decisions reached upon the difficult points (excepting only two cases in which his opinion
differed), were correct. From that moment he would not suffer anyone to speak, of the cure
of Ars as an incapable pastor. About this time, moreover, the bishop personally visited Father
Vianney at his house in Ars, and found there a zealous and holy man, instead of the ridiculous
figure which the cure's enemies had made him out to be. Speaking one day to his assembled clergy,
in regard to the cure of Ars, he said: "Gentlemen, would that you all had a trifle of the foolishness
about which you make so merry. It would not prejudice your intelligence in the least!"

Yet, far more than the protection thus afforded by the bishop, did the unalterable humility
and amiability of Father Vianney bring these opponents to reason. In the course of a few years
this noble character ceased to have any enemies among the clergy. Laymen likewise stopped their
calumnies, even if they did not cease their ridicule altogether.

