Knapp became shortly a most interesting personage to people who were making collections, and
he attained, besides ingenuity, genuine taste and skill in detecting marks and discerning values.
In a year he had as nice a knowledge of china and pottery as any one in the country, and if
the farmers' wives were so much the poorer by the loss of what had been in the family for generations,
they did not recognize their loss.

However, it was by old clocks and brass andirons and fenders that Knapp made his fortune. A
gentleman asked him to procure him some old-fashioned articles of this sort, and the peddler
at once went into the matter on speculation, and bought up all the old brasses he could find
within a radius of fifty miles. These fenders and andirons were gladly parted with, growing
rusty as they had been for years, and almost forgotten in garrets and cellars. New England
farmers remember too distinctly the shiverings and burnings of their youth not to feel an insurmountable
prejudice against open fires. So Knapp, whose wider knowledge made him master of the fact that
this present generation, sickened of stoves and dreary black holes in the wall and burnt dead
heat, and longing for some cheerful household centre, were restoring the old fireplaces and
open fires, where the flames could leap and roar, and the logs burn and glow and smoulder,--Knapp,
I say, humored this fancy by opening his shop and offering his old-fashioned fenders and andirons
to the public. He had bought them at a mere song, and sold them again at a price so reasonable
that any purchaser might be suited, yet still at a profit of five hundred to a thousand per cent.

Once started as a regular dealer, he went steadily on: his activity was incessant, and always
productive. His energies seemed to have been shaped by an unerring and divining instinct. He
found old sideboards, chests, wardrobes, brought from England two centuries ago, dropping to
pieces in barns and cellars. He found an "almost priceless Elizabethan cabinet" serving as
a hen-house in a farmer's barnyard, and another in a little better condition used as a receptacle
for pies in his cellar. He bought them both for five dollars, had them "restored," and sold
one for eight hundred and the other for five hundred dollars. It is true that this process
of "restoration" was an expensive one, and in his next venture of the sort he demanded higher
prices without offering articles so valuable or so unique. At present he is engaged in refurnishing
a North River mansion of colonial times with suitable furniture and decorations, and will be
handsomely rewarded for his pains. But he is too well known now to find rare and curious articles
as freely parted with as they were a few years ago. Still, the hard times help him. Then, too,
in New England old families are constantly passing away, and leaving what small possessions
belonged to the last surviving maiden of the race to far-away relations. These possessions,
consisting of good solid old furniture, are certain to become Knapp's if he finds anything
desirable among them. He has been known to go to a house within twelve hours of the death of
the last surviving member of the family, and offer to negotiate with a servant or friend of
the deceased for a chair, table, clock or sideboard he coveted. I doubt if an auction of old
furniture has occurred for four years within one hundred miles of him where he has not been
the first and the most privileged buyer.

  L.W.

SMALL-WAISTED WOMEN.

If the truth be fairly stated, women have many excuses for their infatuation regarding small
waists. It is Mrs. Haweis who says, "The reason why a small waist is a beauty is because, when
it is natural, it goes together with the peculiar litheness and activity of a slenderly-built
figure. All the bones are small, the shoulders and arms petite, and the general look is dainty
and youthful." In other words, a small waist is only a beauty when it is in proportion to the
rest of the figure. The common mistake lies in considering it a beauty in a large woman of
massive proportions. A few centuries ago women did not take a scientific view of things, and
fell into delusions which in this age are a disgrace to the sex. They knew nothing of anatomy,
of the law of proportion or of the curve of beauty, and they misunderstood the language of
admiration. The latter I suspect to be at the root of the whole matter. Poets were, as we shall
presently see, everlastingly praising small waists, and women fell into the error of supposing
that a small waist was, in the abstract, a beauty and an attraction. When or where the mistake
originated I cannot tell, but here are the words of praise of probably a fourteenth-century
lover: "Middel heo hath menskful smal," or, "She hath a graceful small waist." At a later day
Master Wither included in the attractions of her who had left him,

          Her wast exceeding small,
            The fives did fit her shoo;
          But now, alasse! sh'as left me.

This suits exactly the modern view of a small waist and a No. 5 shoe.

In the well-known Scotch ballad "Edom o' Gordon" the Lady Rodes is represented as being shut
up by Gordon in her burning castle. The smoke was suffocating when,

          Oh than bespaik her dochter dear:
          She was baith jimp and sma', etc.

Here it might be said that the evident youth of the girl, who was dropped over the wall and
fell on the point of the cruel Gordon's spear, accounts for her being "jimp and sma'." The
explanation will not apply to "The Cruel Sister," as given by Sir Walter Scott:

          She took her by the middle sma',
            Binnorie, O Binnorie!

So fascinated was the rhymer by that special feature of her beauty that he returns to it after
recounting how the elder sister drowned the younger:

          You could not see her middle sma',
            Binnorie, O Binnorie!
          Her gouden girdle was so bra,
            By the bonny milldams of Binnorie.

Another instance is in the opening verse of Sir Walter Scott's version of "The Lass of Lochroyan:"

          Oh wha will shoe my bonny foot?
            And wha will glove my hand?
          And wha will lace my middle jimp
            Wi' a lang, lang linen band?

The last line appears to indicate the use of a linen band, as the Roman ladies used the strophium,
a broad ribbon tied round the breast as a support. From this it may be inferred that the "Lass
of Lochroyan" did not owe her "middle jimp" to any very deadly artificial means of compression.

One of the most remarkable instances that can be adduced is in the original version of "Annie
Laurie," by William Douglas, a Scottish poet of the seventeenth century. How are they to know
that the "jimp middle" of the ballads was in its jimpness in proportion to the shoulders? The
trouble is, that the early rhymesters have used up the only side of the question capable of
poetical treatment. One cannot sing of the reverse: no poet could seriously lift up his voice
in praise of her "ample waist" or "graceful portliness." In order to reach woman's ear, modern
writers must adopt a different course, and it is curious to contrast their utterances with
those of the ballad-makers. Place Charles Reade by the side of Douglas, and then what becomes
of the "waist ye weel micht span"?

Every lady should read A Simpleton, and learn something of the monstrous wrong she inflicts
upon herself by trying to compass an artificially-produced "middle sae jimp." It will prepare
her for Mrs. Haweis's lessons upon The Art of Beauty. One or two passages will give a hint
of their flavor: "Nothing is so ugly as a pinched waist: it puts the hips and shoulders invariably
out of proportion in width.... In deforming the waist almost all the vital organs are affected
by the pressure, and the ribs are pushed out of their proper place." "Tight-lacing is ugly,
because it distorts the natural lines of the figure, and gives an appearance of uncertainty
and unsafeness.... Men seldom take to wife a girl who has too small a waist, whether natural
or artificial." "In architecture, a pillar or support of any kind is called debased and bad
in art if what is supported be too heavy for the thing supporting, and if a base be abnormally
heavy and large for what it upholds. The laws of proportion and balance must be understood.
In a waist of fifteen inches both are destroyed, and the corresponding effect is unpleasant
to the eye. The curve of the waist is coarse and immoderate, utterly opposed to what Ruskin
has shown to be beauty in a curve. Real or artificial, such a waist is always ugly: if real,
it is a deformity that should be disguised; if artificial, it is culpable, and nasty to boot."

No rhyming can withstand such reasoning. If the ballads really had any effect in fostering
an admiration of abnormally small waists, both science and a truer conception of beauty should
by this time have counteracted their influence. Women cannot much longer, with decency, plead
ignorance of the results of a practice which would be ridiculous were it less pernicious.

  J.J.

VICTOR HUGO AT HOME.

On the steep heights of the Rue de Clichy, at the corner of a street, we find the number 21.
How many heads crowned either with a laurel or a diadem have passed beneath the arch of this
doorway since Victor Hugo left the Rue Pigalle to take up his abode here! The apartment inhabited
by the poet can hardly be considered either spacious or elegant. Its dining-room is of cramped
dimensions, and the famous red drawing-room, though handsomely furnished, lacks the air of
individuality that one would naturally expect to find in it. Probably this arises from the
wandering life that Victor Hugo has led for so many years. After the coup d'état the furniture
of his house in the Rue de la Tour d'Auvergne was sold at auction. Contrary to custom, and
probably through the interference of some member of the imperial party, no police were at hand
to protect or watch over the articles exposed for sale. Consequently, the depredations were
frightful. Small objects were carried off bodily, tapestries were cut to pieces and the furniture
and statues were mercilessly mutilated. One well-dressed man walked off with Columbus's compass--that
which the insurrectionists had a few months before examined so respectfully, their leader remarking,
"That compass discovered America." Many of the poet's household treasures remain at Hauteville
House, in the island of Guernsey.

But the curiosity of the abode is the study. From floor to ceiling it is one mass of books,
letters, newspapers and manuscripts: the chairs, the mantelpiece, the table have disappeared
beneath their burdens. A narrow path, shaped in the midst of these accumulations, permits the
poet to pass from the door to the window, Victor Hugo's correspondence is enormous, and is
continually increasing. He receives letters from all sorts of people on all sorts of subjects--letters
of homage and letters of abuse, requests for autographs and demands for money, verses sent
by youthful poets with prayers for his advice, and the wails of the oppressed who look to him
as their sworn champion. Very seldom does Victor Hugo refuse to answer, though his responses
are necessarily brief. Among these accumulated papers must be cited the vast mass of Victor
Hugo's unpublished works. He never fails to devote a certain portion of the day to literary
work, his brain being as clear, his imagination as fertile, his pen as ready, as they were
twenty-five years ago. "Nulla dies sine linea" is the motto of his daily life. Yet with all
his industry he has been heard to lament that he will not live long enough to transfer to paper
all the conceptions that crowd his busy brain. In January, 1876, he remarked to a friend, "Were
I to begin giving to the world my unpublished and completed works, I could issue a new volume
monthly for a year." Among these treasures for posterity are to be found the tragedies of Torquemada
and the Twins (the Iron Mask); the comedies of the Grandmother, The Sword, and perchance The
Brother of Gavroche; a fairy piece wherein the flowers and trees play speaking parts; volumes
of poems entitled The Four Winds of the Mind, All the Lyre, Just Indignation, The Sinister
Years (a connecting link between Les Châtiments and a Terrible Year); and even a scientific
work on the effects of the sphere. He once said, "I have more to do than I have yet done. It
seems to me that as I advance in years my horizon grows larger, so I shall depart and leave
my work unfinished. It would take several more lifetimes to write down all that fills my brain.
I shall never complete my task, but I am resigned: I see in my future more than I behold in
my past."

He was once speaking of the dénouement of Marion Delorme, and remarked that he had written
two last scenes for that tragedy, the first sombre and terrible, the second tender and touching,
and that he had preferred the former, but had yielded to the counsels of his friends and the
actors in the piece, and had suffered it to be produced with the more gentle dénouement. On
being asked if he had destroyed the rejected scene, he made answer that he preserved everything
he had ever written. "Posterity can destroy what it pleases, and keep what it pleases," he
added with a smile.

Victor Hugo's receptions are delightfully simple and informal. He is at home one evening in
the week, when his friends and admirers gather round him. No change of toilette is needed:
the ladies appear in walking costume, the gentlemen in frock-coats. "The Master," as his intimate
friends and disciples love to call him, avoids all airs and posing with the quiet simplicity
of true genius. He does not plant himself in the midst of his company, neither does he assume
the consequential manners of a dictator. Seated in an arm-chair or on a sofa beside some favored
guest, he converses--he does not discourse. At an early hour, in view of the age and the simple
habits of the host, the company separate, the most enthusiastic raising the hand of the Master
to their lips as they take leave. One of the greatest charms about Victor Hugo's manner is
that he never shrinks from or repels any manifestation of genuine admiration or homage. Unlike
celebrities of far less note, who profess to be indignant or disgusted at any such manifestations,
he lends himself to what must often be wearisome to him with a kindly graciousness that often
changes the enthusiasm of his admirers into a passionate personal attachment.

Few men have ever enjoyed so wide-spread and enduring a popularity as does Victor Hugo among
the people of Paris. When, during the dark days of 1870, he returned from his long exile, he
was greeted at the railway-station by a vast crowd, which escorted his carriage to his first
resting-place, the home of M. Paul Meurice, and he was twice compelled to address a few words
to them in order to appease their eagerness to hear his voice. When he appears in public on
great and solemn occasions, such as the funeral of M. Thiers, he is invariably made the object
of a popular ovation of the most touching character. People climb up the sides of his carriage
to touch his hand, mothers lift up their children to the windows imploring his blessing, and
the cry of "Vive Victor Hugo!" goes up from the very hearts of the throng. On the day of the
funeral of Madame Paul Meurice, as the cortége was going along the exterior boulevards, it
passed near a menagerie. Just as the carriage of Victor Hugo came opposite the door the lions
within set up a tremendous roar. "They know that the other one is passing by," said an old
workingman beside the carriage ("Ils sentent que l'autre passe"). The fondness of Victor Hugo
for riding about Paris on the top of an omnibus is well known. It has sometimes happened that
on tendering his fare the conductor has put the coin aside with the remark, "I shall keep that
as a relic." One day, on returning from a session of the senate at Versailles, he arrived late
at the station. It was a snowy day, the train was full, and he was obliged to climb into a
fourth-class place, a seat on the top of the cars. The benches were covered with snow. A workingman
who recognized the poet would not let him sit down till with his blouse he had wiped the seat
clean and dry. Victor Hugo thanked him and offered him his hand, and with a naïve delight the
good fellow cried, "Ah, monsieur, ah, citizen, how proud I am to have seen you and touched
you!" More than once the cabman employed to take the poet to his house has refused to accept
his fare, declaring that the honor of having driven Victor Hugo was recompense enough. On the
day of the funeral of M. Thiers so dense a crowd surrounded the carriage of the poet that it
remained for a long time motionless and imprisoned, and the shouts that greeted him were so
wildly enthusiastic that the coachman who was driving his carriage fairly shed tears, remarking,
however, in a shame-faced manner, "A crying coachman! what a silly sight!"

Naturally, beside this passionate love stands a hate as passionate. The vindictive fury of
the Bonapartists against Victor Hugo can easily be understood. No writer more than he has contributed
to render a restoration of the Empire impossible. Hence insults of all kinds, from the calumny
openly printed in an imperialist newspaper to the anonymous letter overflowing with menaces.
One of these, received in September, 1877, threatened the poet in no doubtful terms. "Do not
imagine, scoundrel, that we will let you escape us a second time:" so ran one of its paragraphs.
Under the Second Empire all letters written to or by Victor Hugo were compelled to pass through
the ordeal of the Black Cabinet. Many of his Parisian correspondents evaded this surveillance
by sending their letters under cover to acquaintances in Germany or by confiding them to travellers
who were going to England. But the letters of the poet to his friends in France were invariably
opened and read, and many of them were confiscated. In a sarcastic mood Victor Hugo caused
a quantity of envelopes to be prepared for his use, in one corner of which was printed an extract
from the law forbidding any agent of the government to open or to tamper with any letter that
passes through the post-office. On one occasion he wrote across the address of a letter, "Family
matters--useless to open it."

It is said that the empress Eugénie, after perusing Les Châtiments, threw the volume aside
with this exclamation: "I do not see what harm we have ever done to this M. Hugo." This remark
was afterward repeated to the poet. "Tell her that the harm was the second of December," was
his reply.

The bottle that contained the ink used in writing Napoleon le Petit had a curious history.
That splendid and fiery piece of invective, so amply justified by after events, was commenced
on the 12th of June, 1852, and finished on the 14th of July, the anniversary of the taking
of the Bastile. With the few drops of ink that remained in the bottle Victor Hugo wrote upon
its label--

          Out of this bottle
          Came Napoleon the Little,

and affixed his signature. The bottle was given by Victor Hugo to Madame Drouet, who afterward
presented it to a young physician who had attended her through a dangerous illness. This young
physician, Dr. Yvan, owed to the intercession of Prince Jerome Napoleon permission to return
to France to visit his dying father. Having invited the prince to dinner after his return,
he showed him as a curiosity the famous bottle. No sooner had the prince read the inscription
than he insisted upon taking possession of it, and in spite of the remonstrances of Dr. Yvan
he carried it off in triumph.

Victor Hugo is very hospitable, and delights in having three or four friends to dine with him,
but his appetite, though healthful, is neither very great nor very dainty: he prefers plain
food and drinks only light claret habitually. He is a very early riser, and on fine spring
or summer mornings he may often be met at six o'clock taking a stroll in the Champs Élysées.
Of his fondness for riding on the tops of omnibuses I have already spoken. These long rides,
when he traverses Paris from one end to the other, are his periods of composition. He sits
plunged in a profound reverie, with vague eyes gazing unseeing into space. So well are his
moods understood by the conductors and habitual travellers on those lines that he is always
left undisturbed. Sometimes the greater part of the day will be passed in these excursions,
nor does any severity of the weather ever daunt the aged poet. Yet with all the quiet simplicity
of his habits his daily life has not escaped the shafts of calumny. The Bonapartist press declared
that he was a drunkard who used often to be picked up insensible from the floor of his own
dining-room. He has been called an assassin because of his sympathy with the proscribed Communists,
a madman because of his enthusiastic and impassioned utterances, and he has been said to be
a hunchback whose deformity was dissimulated by the skill of his tailor.

Any sketch of the poet's home-life would be incomplete did I not touch on his passionate fondness
for his grand-children, the two little beings whose prattle and caresses lend a charm of peculiar
sweetness to the waning hours of that illustrious career. For them the world-renowned genius
is but the most loving and tender of grandfathers. Their games, their studies, their baby caprices,
sway the actions of that grand personality as the zephyrs ruffle the surface of the summer
ocean. The creator of Marion Delorme excels in manoeuvring a puppet-show and in getting up
plays on a dolls' theatre. The author of Les Miserables often lulls these little ones to sleep
with improvised tales of wonderful fascination. For their sakes he becomes a sculptor and moulds
in bread-crumb most marvellous pigs with four matches for legs. They it is who know best the
almost feminine tenderness, the wellnigh maternal love, of which that powerful nature is capable.

I write in the present tense, yet as I write these things exist no longer. The red drawing-room
is closed, the dwelling on the Rue de Clichy is deserted. Victor Hugo is in Guernsey, and from
that far retreat come sinister rumors respecting his failing health. These are denied by his
friends, but are stoutly supported by his enemies. Which of them speak the truth? That is hard
to tell. It may be that this grand career, long and lustrous as a summer day, has reached its
evening hour at last. Perchance we shall see no more the massive head framed in its snow-white
locks and beard, the piercing eyes, the stalwart frame that bore so lightly the burden of wellnigh
fourscore years. It may be so, and yet we hope, we pray, for the return of him who lights our
century with the lustre of the great creative genius of the world.

  L.H.H.

SPIRITS IN SCANDINAVIA.

Although it is generally known that there have been of late great and peculiar changes in the
laws which regulate the sale of intoxicating drinks in the Scandinavian peninsula, there is
not among foreigners an accurate idea of these changes. It may not therefore be uninteresting
to state them a little in detail, as well as to glance at the results as gathered from personal
experience and observation in different parts of Sweden and Norway. It should be premised that
the peculiar "vanity" of both the Swedes and the Norwegians is spirits, and that the recent
licensing laws in Scandinavia have been largely levelled against the sale of these drinks.
For about a century prior to 1854, Sweden was so given to drunkenness that one who has had
special opportunities of judging described it as "the most drunken country in the world." Free
trade in spirits was practically in force: every small land-owner could distil on payment of
a nominal license fee, and in towns every burgher had the right of sale. The whole country
may be said "to have been deluged with spirits;" but, profiting by the exertions of the apostles
of temperance, a public opinion was created which twenty-four years ago produced a bill on
which the existing general law is based. It abolished the small stills and imposed a comparatively
heavy duty on the popular drink, branvin. It established a sort of threefold control over the
issue of new licenses for the sale of spirits, under which the communal committee, the commune
and the governor of a province have power to restrict or lessen the number of such licenses,
while each seller of spirits was required to pay to the local rates a tax on the amount of
spirits sold. The licenses were issued for periods of three years, and sold by auction to the
highest bidders. To such an extent has the sale of spirits been swept under this law from the
rural parts of Sweden that in 1871 there were only four hundred and sixty places for the sale
of spirits in the country, the towns excepted. From observation and from the report of others
the writer is able to say that the effect of this has been most beneficial in the rural parts,
materially contributing to the sobriety and the moral welfare of the people. The general law,
it may be noticed, had some of the clauses which are commonly supposed to attach to the later
local laws that have been put into operation. It contained a permissive clause which allowed
of the formation of companies to control the spirit-sale in towns. One company may take the
whole of the licenses allotted to any town, guaranteeing a certain income to the town from
such sale of spirits. In Gothenburg, the chief port of Sweden, such a company was formed at
the suggestion of a committee appointed in 1865 to inquire into the cause of the constant increase
of pauperism and insanity there, which it charged largely on the sale of spirits, especially
in dark, unhealthy places. This company, which was called the "Goteborg Utskankings Bolag,"
began operations in October, 1865, with forty licenses, and acquired by 1868 the whole of the
public-house licenses for the sale of spirits, with the exception of about a dozen, the owners
of which had life-licenses. The Bolag, or company, had, with these exceptions, a monopoly of
the sale of spirits in the town in places for consumption on the premises, and a monopoly to
that extent only. It weeded out some of the worst of these public-houses: it improved the condition
of the rest, appointing salaried managers, who had in addition the profit on the sale of food
and all drinks except spirits, the sale of the latter being under very stringent regulations
for the profit only of the Bolag. The managers were compelled to sell food, "cooked and hot"
if needed; to give no credit; to keep orderly, clean and well-ventilated houses; to allow no
drunkenness; and not to sell spirits to those "overloaded." In the first ten years of its existence
the Bolag met with opposition, not only from spirit-sellers who sold for non-consumption on
the premises, but also from the many sellers of ale and porter, who were permitted to sell
those drinks unnoticed by the law. It is claimed that in spite of this competition the working
of the company materially contributed to the sobriety of the town; and it may be worth while
to test this by the facts.

When the Bolag began in 1865 there were, for the police year, 2070 cases of drunkenness; in
1866 there were only 1424; and there was a decrease in the next year, and again in 1868, when
the number was 1320, which has proved the minimum. From that period there has been an increase,
until in 1876--the latest year for which the facts are procurable--the number of cases was
2357. But during the whole of that time the population has been increasing: it was 46,557 in
1866, and in 1876 it was over 66,000; so that the apparent increase in these years is a proportionate
though very small decrease--a decrease of about one per cent. There has been also a large decrease
in the more serious crimes reported to the police of the town. As to pauperism, there is a
decrease in the number of persons receiving entire relief from the community, but an increase
in the number of those receiving partial relief. The sales of spirits by the company's agents
have materially increased, but it is urged that this is due to the fact that in its earlier
years it had more opposition to encounter, while in 1875 it had acquired a full monopoly over
the sale of spirits, except in the instances of the life-licenses, which had been reduced in
number. Its gross profits have materially increased, rising from £7200 in English money in
1865 to £52,850 in 1876, and the amount of the net profit it paid into the town treasury had
increased from £2800 to £40,100! The authorities of the town are satisfied with these results;
and there is an almost universal belief that the state of Gothenburg in regard to drunkenness
is incomparably better than it would have been without the operation of the Bolag: at the same
time it is fair to state that some are of opinion that the benefits have not been so great
as they should have been, and that the company has to some extent been worked rather with a
view to money-making for the community than to the repression of drunkenness. As to the general
opinion, it is indicated by the fact that every large town in Sweden has now followed in the
wake of Gothenburg. In 1871 the Norwegian Storthing passed a law to enable their towns to follow
suit; and about a score have adopted a similar scheme, modified by allowing the profits of
the Norwegian "associations" to be paid by the members to objects of public utility.

As to personal impressions of the working of the system, it may be first said that attention
having been so fully directed to the provision made for sale of food in these public-houses,
this was tested in many with satisfactory results--food cheap, plentiful and wholesome being
procurable. The public-houses were found to be generally neat and orderly, but not equal in
comfort or appearance to the public-houses in other lands, several of them being underground
vaults merely. The company has in Gothenburg twenty-five public-houses now; it leases the right
of sale of spirits to eleven eating-houses and clubs; it has seven spirit-shops and thirteen
wholesale places of sale; so that it makes ample provision for the satisfying of the thirsty
throats of the Swedes. Unquestionably, Gothenburg has still a larger amount of drunkenness
than is known in towns of equal size elsewhere, and a few minutes' observation near one of
these "model public-houses" shows that there is a very great sale of drink; but it is also
evident that much of the sale on market-days is to country-people from districts where there
are no public-houses. Finally, the result of some time given to observation and to the consideration
of the question on the spot convinced us that the stricter regulation and supervision of the
sale of spirits in this method has reduced the proportionate drunkenness so far as it is brought
before police notice; that the public-houses are improved in appearance and in order; that
the grosser evils are to some extent done away with, and the community pecuniarily benefited;
but that the working of this "experiment" has not succeeded in lessening the exceedingly large
local demand for spirits.

  J.W.S.

RUSSIAN RECRUITING.

It is a common observation in the mouths of men who are estimating Russia's military strength
that, although short of money, she has at least a boundless supply of men; but this idea, though
plausible at first sight, is utterly erroneous. A few years ago the confidence of the Russian
optimists in their "inexhaustible numbers" was rudely shaken by the discovery that in a single
year, out of eighty-four thousand conscripts sent up to the various recruiting centres, no
fewer than forty-four thousand were rejected as unfitted for service by disease or other physical
defects, not inclusive of short stature. The government took the alarm, and gave orders for
the immediate formation of a medical commission and the thorough investigation of the sanitary
condition of the population at large. This was promptly done, and the result startled all Russia
with the announcement that her strength was barely one-half what it had previously been supposed
to be.

Nor is this by any means an over-statement of the case. In European Russia the weakness in
productive ages is such that whereas in Great Britain the proportion of persons alive between
the ages of fifteen and sixty is 548 in the thousand, and in Belgium 518, in Russia it barely
reaches 265. It is computed that in the government of Pultava alone, by no means a populous
district, not less than one hundred thousand persons are absolutely disabled by various chronic
complaints. Out of the forty-nine millions of the laboring class, the "raw material" of the
Russian army, fully fifty per cent. are practically unfit to serve. The statistics of the average
duration of human life are even more terribly significant. In England and Northern Germany,
according to the best authorities, every man lives, on an average, about 40 years; in Southern
Germany, 38 years; and in France, 36. In Russia, on the other hand, the average, even in the
healthiest regions (i.e. the north and west), varies from 27 to 22 years. Along the banks of
the Volga and in the south-east provinces generally, where the conditions of life are less
favorable, the proportion falls as low as 20 years, while in the governments of Perm, Viatka
and Orenburg it is only 15.

