Was there ever a happier scene than Cowes presented on that day? But to begin with the splendid
patrons of the festival, we must turn our eyes to the elegant Club House, built at the expense
of George Ward, Esq. Before it are arranged the numerous and efficient band of the Irish Fusileers,
and behind them, standing in graceful groups, are many of the illustrious members of the club.
That elderly personage, arrayed in ship habiliments, is the noble Commodore, Lord Yarborough;
he is in conversation with the blithe and mustachioed Earl of Belfast. To the right of them
is the Marquess of Anglesey, in marine metamorphose; his face bespeaking the polished noble,
whilst his dress betokens the gallant sea captain. There is the fine portly figure of Lord
Grantham, bowing to George Ward, Esq.; who, in quakerlike coat and homely gaiters, with an
umbrella beneath his arm, presents a fine picture of a speculator "on 'Change." To the left
is Richard Stephens, Esq., Secretary to the Royal Yacht Club, and Master of the Ceremonies.
He is engaged in the enviable task of introducing a party of ladies to view the richly-adorned
cups; and the smile of gallantry which plays upon his countenance belies the versatility of
his talent, which can blow a storm on the officers of a Custom House cutter more to be dreaded
than the blusterings of old Boreas. That beautiful Gothic villa adjoining the Club House, late
the residence of the Marquess of Anglesey, is occupied by the ladies of some of the noble members
of the club, forming as elegant and fashionable a circle as any ball-room in the metropolis
would be proud to boast of. But it is time to speak of the crowd on the beach--lords and ladies--peers
and plebeians--civilians and soldiers--swells and sailors--respectable tradesmen and men of
no trade--coaches and carriages, and "last, not least," the Bards of the Regatta--

  "Eternal blessings be upon their heads!
  The poets--"

singing the deeds of the contested day in strains neither Doric nor Sapphic, but in such rhythm
and measure as Aristotle has overlooked in the compilation of his Poetic Rules; and to such
music as might raise the shade of Handel from its "cerements." Surely the Earl of Belfast must
feel himself highly flattered by the vocal compliment--

  "And as for the Earl of Belfast, he's a nobleman outright,
  They all say this, both high and low, all through the Iley Wight."

Reverting to the aquatic scenery, the most prominent object amidst the "myriad convoy," is
the Commodore's fine ship, the Falcon, 351 tons, lying out a mile and a half to sea. Contrasting
her proportions with the numerous yachts around her, we might compare her commanding appearance
to that of some mountain giant, seated on a precipice, and watching the trial for mastery amongst
a crowd of pigmies below. Her state cabin has been decorated in a style of magnificence for
a ball in the evening, at which 200 of the nobility and gentry are expected to be present.
But all eyes are anxiously turned to the race. "Huzza for the Arrow," is the acclamation from
the crowd; and certain enough the swift Arrow, of 85 tons, Joseph Weld, Esq., has left her
opponents, even the favourite Miranda spreads all sail in vain--the Arrow flies too swiftly,
outstripping the Therese, 112 tons; the Menai, 163 tons; the Swallow, 124 tons; the Scorpion,
110 tons; the Pearl, 113 tons; the Dolphin, 58 tons; and the Harriet, 112 tons. Now she nears
the starting vessel, gliding swiftly round it--the cannons on the battlements of Cowes Castle
proclaim the victory--the music breaks forth "with its voluptuous swell," amidst the applause
of the multitude,--and his Majesty's Cup is awarded to the Arrow.

The assemblage dispersing, we will adjourn to Paddy White's, and refresh ourselves with a cup
of his Bohea, rendered more agreeable by the company's critiques on the sailing match. At this
moment Cowes contains half the world; and every villa, and assembly-room, and tavern, and pot-house,
from the superb club-house, with its metamorphosed lords, to the Sun tap, with its boisterous
barge-men, are as happy as mortals can be. Just before oar departure for Newport, we will to
the harbour, and take a farewell peep of the "finish" of Cowes' Regatta. Though unwelcome night
has prematurely interrupted the enjoyments of the multitude, it engenders a social pleasure
to behold the numerous lights, forming almost a concentrated blaze--to hear the expiring cadence
of the jovial song, excited by the second bottle--and to join in the bustle of the beach, where
the company of the Falcon are embarking. But good bye to Cowes--we are already on the road
to Newport; and the lateness of the hour may be conceived by the inmates of the rural inn,
the Flower Pot, drawing the white curtains of each bed-room window. Reader, a word at parting.
Art thou tired of the commercial monotony of the city, and wearied with its eternal aspect
of brick? Has the efflorescence of thy youth been "sicklied o'er" by the wasting turmoil of
the town?--leave its precincts for one month of the fervid summer, and forget thy cares and
toils in the embowered Isle of Wight. Let thy taste be ever so fastidious, there it may be
gratified. If thou art in love with sentimental ease and elegance, take up thy residence amongst
the library-visiting fashionables at Ryde--if thou hast a taste for the terrific and sublime,
thou canst meditate amidst the solemn and sea-worn cliffs of Chale, and regale thine ears with
the watery thunders of the Black Gang Chine--if any veneration for antiquity lights up thy
feelings, enjoy thy dream beneath the Saxon battlements of Carisbrooke, and poetize amidst
the "sinking relics" of Quam Abbey--if geology is thy passion, visit the "wild and wondrous"
rocks of Freshwater, where thou canst feast thine eyes with relics of the antediluvian world,
and enrich thy collection with shells of every hue--if thou longest to dissolve thy heart in
pastoral tears, à la Keates, adjourn to Arreton, the sweetly secluded scene of the "Dairyman's
Daughter;" where thou mayest "with flowers commune;" or if thou hast the prevailing characteristics
of a cheerful citizen, take up thy abode amongst the life-cherishing bon-vivants of Newport--but,
above all, forego not the pleasures of a Cowes Regatta! * * H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELEPHANT HUNT.

A medical officer, in a recent letter from Hambantotti says, I have just returned from beholding
a sight, which, even in this country, is of rare occurrence, viz. an elephant hunt, conducted
under the orders of government. A minute description (though well worth perusal) would be far
too long for a letter; I shall therefore only give you what is usually called a faint idea.

