The low-browed gateway, barely high enough to admit a man on horseback, opened before her,
almost to her feelings like the gate of the grave, and she could not help crossing herself,
with a silent prayer for protection, as she stepped under it, and came into the castle court--not
such a court as gave its name to fair courtesy, but, if truth must be told, far more resembling
an ill-kept, ill- savoured stable-yard, with the piggeries opening into it.  In unpleasantly
close quarters, the Schneiderlein, or little tailor, i.e. the biggest and fiercest of all the
knappen, was grooming Nibelung; three long-backed, long-legged, frightful swine were grubbing
in a heap of refuse; four or five gaunt ferocious-looking dogs came bounding up to greet their
comrade Festhold; and a great old long-bearded goat stood on the top of the mixen, looking
much disposed to butt at any newcomer.  The Sorel family had brought cleanliness from Flanders,
and Hausfrau Johanna was scrupulously dainty in all her appointments.  Christina scarcely knew
how she conveyed herself and her blue kirtle across the bemired stones to the next and still
darker portal, under which a wide but rough ill-hewn stair ascended.  The stables, in fact,
occupied the lower floor of the main building, and not till these stairs had ascended above
them did they lead out into the castle hall.  Here were voices--voices rude and harsh, like
those Christina had shrunk from in passing drinking booths.  There was a long table, with rough
men-at-arms lounging about, and staring rudely at her; and at the upper end, by a great open
chimney, sat, half-dozing, an elderly man, more rugged in feature than his son; and yet, when
he roused himself and spoke to Hugh, there was a shade more of breeding, and less of clownishness
in his voice and deportment, as if he had been less entirely devoid of training.  A tall darkly-robed
woman stood beside him--it was her harsh tone of reproof and command that had so startled Christina
as she entered--and her huge towering cap made her look gigantic in the dim light of the smoky
hall.  Her features had been handsome, but had become hardened into a grim wooden aspect; and
with sinking spirits Christina paused at the step of the dais, and made her reverence, wishing
she could sink beneath the stones of the pavement out of sight of these terrible personages.

"So that's the wench you have taken all this trouble for," was Freiherrinn Kunigunde's greeting.
"She looks like another sick baby to nurse; but I'll have no trouble about her;--that is all.
Take her up to Ermentrude; and thou, girl, have a care thou dost her will, and puttest none
of thy city fancies into her head."

"And hark thee, girl," added the old Freiherr, sitting up.  "So thou canst nurse her well,
thou shalt have a new gown and a stout husband."

"That way," pointed the lady towards one of the four corner towers; and Christina moved doubtfully
towards it, reluctant to quit her father, her only protector, and afraid to introduce herself.
The younger Freiherr, however, stepped before her, went striding two or three steps at a time
up the turret stair, and, before Christina had wound her way up, she heard a thin, impatient
voice say, "Thou saidst she was come, Ebbo."

"Yes, even so," she heard Freiherr Eberhard return; "but she is slow and town-bred.  She was
afraid of crossing the moat."  And then both laughed, so that Christina's cheeks tingled as
she emerged from the turret into another vaulted room.  "Here she is," quoth the brother; "now
will she make thee quite well."

It was a very bare and desolate room, with no hangings to the rough stone walls, and scarcely
any furniture, except a great carved bedstead, one wooden chair, a table, and some stools.
On the bare floor, in front of the fire, her arm under her head, and a profusion of long hair
falling round her like flax from a distaff, lay wearily a little figure, beside whom Sir Eberhard
was kneeling on one knee.

"Here is my sisterling," said he, looking up to the newcomer.  "They say you burgher women
have ways of healing the sick.  Look at her. Think you you can heal her?"

In an excess of dumb shyness Ermentrude half rose, and effectually hindered any observations
on her looks by hiding her face away upon her brother's knee.  It was the gesture of a child
of five years old, but Ermentrude's length of limb forbade Christina to suppose her less than
fourteen or fifteen.  "What, wilt not look at her?" he said, trying to raise her head; and
then, holding out one of her wasted, feverish hands to Christina, he again asked, with a wistfulness
that had a strange effect from the large, tall man, almost ten years her elder, "Canst thou
cure her, maiden?"

"I am no doctor, sir," replied Christina; "but I could, at least, make her more comfortable.
The stone is too hard for her."

"I will not go away; I want the fire," murmured the sick girl, holding out her hands towards
it, and shivering.

Christina quickly took off her own thick cloth mantle, well lined with dressed lambskins, laid
it on the floor, rolled the collar of it over a small log of wood--the only substitute she
could see for a pillow--and showed an inviting couch in an instant.  Ermentrude let her brother
lay her down, and then was covered with the ample fold. She smiled as she turned up her thin,
wasted face, faded into the same whitey-brown tint as her hair.  "That is good," she said,
but without thanks; and, feeling the soft lambswool:  "Is that what you burgher-women wear?
Father is to give me a furred mantle, if only some court dame would pass the Debateable Ford.
But the Schlangenwaldern got the last before ever we could get down.  Jobst was so stupid.
He did not give us warning in time; but he is to be hanged next time if he does not."

Christina's blood curdled as she heard this speech in a weak little complaining tone, that
otherwise put her sadly in mind of Barbara Schmidt's little sister, who had pined and wasted
to death.  "Never mind, Trudchen," answered the brother kindly; "meantime I have kept all the
wild catskins for thee, and may be this--this--SHE could sew them up into a mantle for thee."

"O let me see," cried the young lady eagerly; and Sir Eberhard, walking off, presently returned
with an armful of the beautiful brindled furs of the mountain cat, reminding Christina of her
aunt's gentle domestic favourite.  Ermentrude sat up, and regarded the placing out of them
with great interest; and thus her brother left her employed, and so much delighted that she
had not flagged, when a great bell proclaimed that it was the time for the noontide meal, for
which Christina, in spite of all her fears of the company below stairs, had been constrained
by mountain air to look forward with satisfaction.

Ermentrude, she found, meant to go down, but with no notion of the personal arrangements that
Christina had been wont to think a needful preliminary.  With all her hair streaming, down
she went, and was so gladly welcomed by her father that it was plain that her presence was
regarded as an unusual advance towards recovery, and Christina feared lest he might already
be looking out for the stout husband.  She had much to tell him about the catskin cloak, and
then she was seized with eager curiosity at the sight of Christina's bundles, and especially
at her lute, which she must hear at once.

"Not now," said her mother, "there will be jangling and jingling enough by and by--meat now."

The whole establishment were taking their places--or rather tumbling into them.  A battered,
shapeless metal vessel seemed to represent the salt-cellar, and next to it Hugh Sorel seated
himself, and kept a place for her beside him.  Otherwise she would hardly have had seat or
food.' She was now able to survey the inmates of the castle. Besides the family themselves,
there were about a dozen men, all ruffianly-looking, and of much lower grade than her father,
and three women.  One, old Ursel, the wife of Hatto the forester, was a bent, worn, but not
ill-looking woman, with a motherly face; the younger ones were hard, bold creatures, from whom
Christina felt a shrinking recoil.  The meal was dressed by Ursel and her kitchen boy.  From
a great cauldron, goat's flesh and broth together were ladled out into wooden bowls.  That
every one provided their own spoon and knife--no fork--was only what Christina was used to
in the most refined society, and she had the implements in a pouch hanging to her girdle; but
she was not prepared for the unwashed condition of the bowls, nor for being obliged to share
that of her father--far less for the absence of all blessing on the meal, and the coarse boisterousness
of manners prevailing thereat.  Hungry as she was, she did not find it easy to take food under
these circumstances, and she was relieved when Ermentrude, overcome by the turmoil, grew giddy,
and was carried upstairs by her father, who laid her down upon her great bed, and left her
to the attendance of Christina.  Ursel had followed, but was petulantly repulsed by her young
lady in favour of the newcomer, and went away grumbling.

Nestled on her bed, Ermentrude insisted on hearing the lute, and Christina had to creep down
to fetch it, with some other of her goods, in trembling haste, and redoubled disgust at the
aspect of the meal, which looked even more repulsive in this later stage, and to one who was
no longer partaking of it.

Low and softly, with a voice whence she could scarcely banish tears, and in dread of attracting
attention, Christina sung to the sick girl, who listened with a sort of rude wonder, and finally
was lulled to sleep.  Christina ventured to lay down her instrument and move towards the window,
heavily mullioned with stone, barred with iron, and glazed with thick glass; being in fact
the only glazed window in the castle.  To her great satisfaction it did not look out over the
loathsome court, but over the opening of the ravine.  The apartment occupied the whole floor
of the keep; it was stone-paved, but the roof was boarded, and there was a round turret at
each angle.  One contained the staircase, and was that which ran up above the keep, served
as a watch-tower, and supported the Eagle banner.  The other three were empty, and one of these,
which had a strong door, and a long loophole window looking out over the open country, Christina
hoped that she might appropriate.  The turret was immediately over the perpendicular cliff
that descended into the plain.  A stone thrown from the window would have gone straight down,
she knew not where.  Close to her ears rushed the descending waterfall in its leap over the
rock side, and her eyes could rest themselves on the green meadow land below, and the smooth
water of the Debateable Ford; nay-- far, far away beyond retreating ridges of wood and field--she
thought she could track a silver line and, guided by it, a something that might be a city.
Her heart leapt towards it, but she was recalled by Ermentrude's fretfully imperious voice.

"I was only looking forth from the window, lady," she said, returning.

"Ah! thou saw'st no travellers at the Ford?" cried Ermentrude, starting up with lively interest.

"No, lady; I was gazing at the far distance.  Know you if it be indeed Ulm that we see from
these windows?"

"Ulm?  That is where thou comest from?" said Ermentrude languidly.

"My happy home, with my dear uncle and aunt!  O, if I can but see it hence, it will be joy!"

"I do not know.  Let me see," said Ermentrude, rising; but at the window her pale blue eyes
gazed vacantly as if she did not know what she was looking at or for.

"Ah! if the steeple of the Dome Kirk were but finished, I could not mistake it," said Christina.
"How beauteous the white spire will look from hence!"

"Dome Kirk?" repeated Ermentrude; "what is that?"

Such an entire blank as the poor child's mind seemed to be was inconceivable to the maiden,
who had been bred up in the busy hum of men, where the constant resort of strange merchants,
the daily interests of a self-governing municipality, and the numerous festivals, both secular
and religious, were an unconscious education, even without that which had been bestowed upon
her by teachers, as well as by her companionship with her uncle, and participation in his studies,
taste and arts.

Ermentrude von Adlerstein had, on the contrary, not only never gone beyond the Kohler's hut
on the one side, and the mountain village on the other, but she never seen more of life than
the festival at the wake the hermitage chapel there on Midsummer-day.  The only strangers who
ever came to the castle were disbanded lanzknechts who took service with her father, or now
and then a captive whom he put to ransom.  She knew absolutely nothing of the world, except
for a general belief that Freiherren lived there to do what they chose with other people, and
that the House of Adlerstein was the freest and noblest in existence.  Also there was a very
positive hatred to the house of Schlangenwald, and no less to that of Adlerstein Wildschloss,
for no reason that Christina could discover save that, being a younger branch of the family,
they had submitted to the Emperor.  To destroy either the Graf von Schlangenwald, or her Wildschloss
cousin, was evidently the highest gratification Ermentrude could conceive; and, for the rest,
that her father and brother should make successful captures at the Debateable Ford was the
more abiding, because more practicable hope.  She had no further ideas, except perhaps to elude
her mother's severity, and to desire her brother's success in chamois-hunting.  The only mental
culture she had ever received was that old Ursel had taught her the Credo, Pater Noster, and
Ave, as correctly as might be expected from a long course of traditionary repetitions of an
incomprehensible language. And she knew besides a few German rhymes and jingles, half Christian,
half heathen, with a legend or two which, if the names were Christian, ran grossly wild from
all Christian meaning or morality. As to the amenities, nay, almost the proprieties, of life,
they were less known in that baronial castle than in any artisan's house at Ulm.  So little
had the sick girl figured them to herself, that she did not even desire any greater means of
ease than she possessed. She moaned and fretted indeed, with aching limbs and blank weariness,
but without the slightest formed desire for anything to remove her discomfort, except the few
ameliorations she knew, such as sitting on her brother's knee, with her head on his shoulder,
or tasting the mountain berries that he gathered for her.  Any other desire she exerted herself
to frame was for finery to be gained from the spoils of travellers.

And this was Christina's charge, whom she must look upon as the least alien spirit in this
dreadful castle of banishment!  The young and old lords seemed to her savage bandits, who frightened
her only less than did the proud sinister expression of the old lady, for she had not even
the merit of showing any tenderness towards the sickly girl, of whom she was ashamed, and evidently
regarded the town-bred attendant as a contemptible interloper.

Long, long did the maiden weep and pray that night after Ermentrude had sunk to sleep.  She
strained her eyes with home-sick longings to detect lights where she thought Ulm might be;
and, as she thought of her uncle and aunt, the poodle and the cat round the stove, the maids
spinning and the prentices knitting as her uncle read aloud some grave good book, most probably
the legend of the saint of the day, and contrasted it with the rude gruff sounds of revelry
that found their way up the turret stairs, she could hardly restrain her sobs from awakening
the young lady whose bed she was to share.  She thought almost with envy of her own patroness,
who was cast into the lake of Bolsena with a millstone about her neck--a better fate, thought
she, than to live on in such an abode of loathsomeness and peril.

But then had not St. Christina floated up alive, bearing up her millstone with her?  And had
not she been put into a dungeon full of venomous reptiles who, when they approached her, had
all been changed to harmless doves?  Christina had once asked Father Balthazar how this could
be; and had he not replied that the Church did not teach these miracles as matters of faith,
but that she might there discern in figure how meek Christian holiness rose above all crushing
burthens, and transformed the rudest natures.  This poor maiden- dying, perhaps; and oh! how
unfit to live or die!--might it be her part to do some good work by her, and infuse some Christian
hope, some godly fear?  Could it be for this that the saints had led her hither?

CHAPTER III:  THE FLOTSAM AND JETSAM OF THE DEBATEABLE FORD

Life in Schloss Adlerstein was little less intolerable than Christina's imagination had depicted
it.  It was entirely devoid of all the graces of chivalry, and its squalor and coarseness,
magnified into absurdity by haughtiness and violence, were almost inconceivable.  Fortunately
for her, the inmates of the castle resided almost wholly below stairs in the hall and kitchen,
and in some dismal dens in the thickness of their walls.  The height of the keep was intended
for dignity and defence, rather than for habitation; and the upper chamber, with its great
state-bed, where everybody of the house of Adlerstein was born and died, was not otherwise
used, except when Ermentrude, unable to bear the oppressive confusion below stairs, had escaped
thither for quietness' sake.  No one else wished to inhabit it.  The chamber above was filled
with the various appliances for the defence of the castle; and no one would have ever gone
up the turret stairs had not a warder been usually kept on the roof to watch the roads leading
to the Ford.  Otherwise the Adlersteiners had all the savage instinct of herding together in
as small a space as possible.

Freiherrin Kunigunde hardly ever mounted to her daughter's chamber. All her affection was centred
on the strong and manly son, of whom she was proud, while the sickly pining girl, who would
hardly find a mate of her own rank, and who had not even dowry enough for a convent, was such
a shame and burthen to her as to be almost a distasteful object.  But perversely, as it seemed
to her, the only daughter was the darling of both father and brother, who were ready to do
anything to gratify the girl's sick fancies, and hailed with delight her pleasure in her new
attendant.  Old Ursel was at first rather envious and contemptuous of the childish, fragile
stranger, but her gentleness disarmed the old woman; and, when it was plain that the young
lady's sufferings were greatly lessened by tender care, dislike gave way to attachment, and
there was little more murmuring at the menial services that were needed by the two maidens,
even when Ermentrude's feeble fancies, or Christina's views of dainty propriety, rendered them
more onerous than before.  She was even heard to rejoice that some Christian care and tenderness
had at last reached her poor neglected child.

It was well for Christina that she had such an ally.  The poor child never crept down stairs
to the dinner or supper, to fetch food for Ermentrude, or water for herself, without a trembling
and shrinking of heart and nerves.  Her father's authority guarded her from rude actions, but
from rough tongues he neither could nor would guard her, nor understand that what to some would
have been a compliment seemed to her an alarming insult; and her chief safeguard lay in her
own insignificance and want of attraction, and still more in the modesty that concealed her
terror at rude jests sufficiently to prevent frightening her from becoming an entertainment.

Her father, whom she looked on as a cultivated person in comparison with the rest of the world,
did his best for her after his own views, and gradually brought her all the properties she
had left at the Kohler's hut.  Therewith she made a great difference in the aspect of the chamber,
under the full sanction of the lords of the castle. Wolf, deer, and sheep skins abounded; and
with these, assisted by her father and old Hatto, she tapestried the lower part of the bare
grim walls, a great bear's hide covered the neighbourhood of the hearth, and cushions were
made of these skins, and stuffed from Ursel's stores of feathers.  All these embellishments
were watched with great delight by Ermentrude, who had never been made of so much importance,
and was as much surprised as relieved by such attentions.  She was too young and too delicate
to reject civilization, and she let Christina braid her hair, bathe her, and arrange her dress,
with sensations of comfort that were almost like health.  To train her into occupying herself
was however, as Christina soon found, in her present state, impossible.  She could spin and
sew a little, but hated both; and her clumsy, listless fingers only soiled and wasted Christina's
needles, silk, and lute strings, and such damage was not so easily remedied as in the streets
of Ulm.  She was best provided for when looking on at her attendant's busy hands, and asking
to be sung to, or to hear tales of the active, busy scenes of the city life--the dresses, fairs,
festivals, and guild processions.

The gentle nursing and the new interests made her improve in health, so that her father was
delighted, and Christina began to hope for a return home.  Sometimes the two girls would take
the air, either, on still days, upon the battlements, where Ermentrude watched the Debateable
Ford, and Christina gazed at the Danube and at Ulm; or they would find their way to a grassy
nook on the mountain-side, where Christina gathered gentians and saxifrage, trying to teach
her young lady that they were worth looking at, and sighing at the thought of Master Gottfried's
wreath when she met with the asphodel seed-vessels.  Once the quiet mule was brought into requisition;
and, with her brother walking by her, and Sorel and his daughter in attendance, Ermentrude
rode towards the village of Adlerstein.  It was a collection of miserable huts, on a sheltered
slope towards the south, where there was earth enough to grow some wretched rye and buckwheat,
subject to severe toll from the lord of the soil.  Perched on a hollow rock above the slope
was a rude little church, over a cave where a hermit had once lived and died in such odour
of sanctity that, his day happening to coincide with that of St. John the Baptist, the Blessed
Freidmund had acquired the credit of the lion's share both of the saint's honours and of the
old solstitial feast of Midsummer.  This wake was the one gaiety of the year, and attracted
a fair which was the sole occasion of coming honestly by anything from the outer world; nor
had his cell ever lacked a professional anchorite.

The Freiherr of his day had been a devout man, who had gone a pilgrimage with Kaiser Friedrich
of the Red Beard, and had brought home a bit of stone from the council chamber of Nicaea, which
he had presented to the little church that he had built over the cavern.  He had named his
son Friedmund; and there were dim memories of his days as of a golden age, before the Wildschlossen
had carried off the best of the property, and when all went well.

This was Christina's first sight of a church since her arrival, except that in the chapel,
which was a dismal neglected vault, where a ruinous altar and mouldering crucifix testified
to its sacred purpose.  The old baron had been excommunicated for twenty years, ever since
he had harried the wains of the Bishop of Augsburg on his way to the Diet; and, though his
household and family were not under the same sentence, "Sunday didna come abune the pass."
Christina's entreaty obtained permission to enter the little building, but she had knelt there
only a few moments before her father came to hurry her away, and her supplications that he
would some day take her to mass there were whistled down the wind; and indeed the hermit was
a layman, and the church was only served on great festivals by a monk from the convent of St.
Ruprecht, on the distant side of the mountain, which was further supposed to be in the Schlangenwald
interest.  Her best chance lay in infusing the desire into Ermentrude, who by watching her
prayers and asking a few questions had begun to acquire a few clearer ideas.  And what Ermentrude
wished had always hitherto been acquiesced in by the two lords.

The elder baron came little into Christina's way.  He meant to be kind to her, but she was
dreadfully afraid of him, and, when he came to visit his daughter, shrank out of his notice
as much as possible, shuddering most of all at his attempts at civilities.  His son she viewed
as one of the thickwitted giants meant to be food for the heroism of good knights of romance.
Except that he was fairly conversant with the use of weapons, and had occasionally ridden beyond
the shadow of his own mountain, his range was quite as limited as his sister's; and he had
an equal scorn for all beyond it.  His unfailing kindness to his sister was however in his
favour, and he always eagerly followed up any suggestion Christina made for her pleasure.

Much of his time was spent on the child, whose chief nurse and playmate he had been throughout
her malady; and when she showed him the stranger's arrangements, or repeated to him, in a wondering,
blundering way, with constant appeals to her attendant, the new tales she had heard, he used
to listen with a pleased awkward amazement at his little Ermentrude's astonishing cleverness,
joined sometimes with real interest, which was evinced by his inquiries of Christina.  He certainly
did not admire the little, slight, pale bower-maiden, but he seemed to look upon her like some
strange, almost uncanny, wise spirit out of some other sphere, and his manner towards her had
none of the offensive freedom apparent in even the old man's patronage. It was, as Ermentrude
once said, laughing, almost as if he feared that she might do something to him.

Christina had expected to see a ruffian, and had found a boor; but she was to be convinced
that the ruffian existed in him.  Notice came up to the castle of a convoy of waggons, and
all was excitement. Men-at-arms were mustered, horses led down the Eagle's Ladder, and an ambush
prepared in the woods.  The autumn rains were already swelling the floods, and the passage
of the ford would be difficult enough to afford the assailants an easy prey.

The Freiherrinn Kunigunde herself, and all the women of the castle, hurried into Ermentrude's
room to enjoy the view from her window. The young lady herself was full of eager expectation,
but she knew enough of her maiden to expect no sympathy from her, and loved her well enough
not to bring down on her her mother's attention; so Christina crept into her turret, unable
to withdraw her eyes from the sight, trembling, weeping, praying, longing for power to give
a warning signal.  Could they be her own townsmen stopped on the way to dear Ulm?

She could see the waggons in mid-stream, the warriors on the bank; she heard the triumphant
outcries of the mother and daughter in the outer room.  She saw the overthrow, the struggle,
the flight of a few scattered dark figures on the farther side, the drawing out of the goods
on the nearer.  Oh! were those leaping waves bearing down any good men's corpses to the Danube,
slain, foully slain by her own father and this gang of robbers?

She was glad that Ermentrude went down with her mother to watch the return of the victors.
She crouched on the floor, sobbing, shuddering with grief and indignation, and telling her
beads alike for murdered and murderers, till, after the sounds of welcome and exultation, she
heard Sir Eberhard's heavy tread, as he carried his sister up stairs.  Ermentrude went up at
once to Christina.

"After all there was little for us!" she said.  "It was only a wain of wine barrels; and now
will the drunkards down stairs make good cheer.  But Ebbo could only win for me this gold chain
and medal which was round the old merchant's neck."

"Was he slain?" Christina asked with pale lips.

"I only know I did not kill him," returned the baron; "I had him down and got the prize, and
that was enough for me.  What the rest of the fellows may have done, I cannot say."

"But he has brought thee something, Stina," continued Ermentrude. "Show it to her, brother."

"My father sends you this for your care of my sister," said Eberhard, holding out a brooch
that had doubtless fastened the band of the unfortunate wine-merchant's bonnet.

"Thanks, sir; but, indeed, I may not take it," said Christina, turning crimson, and drawing back.

"So!" he exclaimed, in amaze; then bethinking himself,--"They are no townsfolk of yours, but
Constance cowards."

"Take it, take it, Stina, or you will anger my father," added Ermentrude.

"No, lady, I thank the barons both, but it were sin in me," said Christina, with trembling voice.

"Look you," said Eberhard; "we have the full right--'tis a seignorial right--to all the goods
of every wayfarer that may be overthrown in our river--as I am a true knight!" he added earnestly.

"A true knight!" repeated Christina, pushed hard, and very indignant in all her terror.  "The
true knight's part is to aid, not rob, the weak."  And the dark eyes flashed a vivid light.

"Christina!" exclaimed Ermentrude in the extremity of her amazement, "know you what you have
said?--that Eberhard is no true knight!"

He meanwhile stood silent, utterly taken by surprise, and letting his little sister fight his
battles.

"I cannot help it, Lady Ermentrude," said Christina, with trembling lips, and eyes filling
with tears.  "You may drive me from the castle--I only long to be away from it; but I cannot
stain my soul by saying that spoil and rapine are the deeds of a true knight."

"My mother will beat you," cried Ermentrude, passionately, ready to fly to the head of the
stairs; but her brother laid his hand upon her.

"Tush, Trudchen; keep thy tongue still, child!  What does it hurt me?"

And he turned on his heels and went down stairs.  Christina crept into her turret, weeping
bitterly and with many a wild thought. Would they visit her offence on her father?  Would they
turn them both out together?  If so, would not her father hurl her down the rocks rather than
return her to Ulm?  Could she escape?  Climb down the dizzy rocks, it might be, succour the
merchant lying half dead on the meadows, protect and be protected, be once more among God-fearing
Christians?  And as she felt her helplessness, the selfish thoughts passed into a gush of tears
for the murdered man, lying suffering there, and for his possible wife and children watching
for him. Presently Ermentrude peeped in.

"Stina, Stina, don't cry; I will not tell my mother!  Come out, and finish my kerchief!  Come
out!  No one shall beat you."

"That is not what I wept for, lady," said Christina.  "I do not think you would bring harm
on me.  But oh!  I would I were at home!  I grieve for the bloodshed that I must see and may
not hinder, and for that poor merchant."

"Oh," said Ermentrude, "you need not fear for him!  I saw his own folk return and lift him
up.  But what is he to thee or to us?"

"I am a burgher maid, lady," said Christina, recovering herself, and aware that it was of little
use to bear testimony to such an auditor as poor little Ermentrude against the deeds of her
own father and brother, which had in reality the sort of sanction Sir Eberhard had mentioned,
much akin to those coast rights that were the temptation of wreckers.

Still she could not but tremble at the thought of her speech, and went down to supper in greater
trepidation than usual, dreading that she should be expected to thank the Freiherr for his
gift.  But, fortunately, manners were too rare at Adlerstein for any such omission to be remarkable,
and the whole establishment was in a state of noisy triumph and merriment over the excellence
of the French wine they had captured, so that she slipped into her seat unobserved.

Every available drinking-horn and cup was full.  Ermentrude was eagerly presented with draughts
by both father and brother, and presently Sir Eberhard exclaimed, turning towards the shrinking
Christina with a rough laugh, "Maiden, I trow thou wilt not taste?"

Christina shook her head, and framed a negative with her lips.

"What's this?" asked her father, close to whom she sat.  "Is't a fast-day?"

There was a pause.  Many were present who regarded a fast-day much more than the lives or goods
of their neighbours.  Christina again shook her head.

"No matter," said good-natured Sir Eberhard, evidently wishing to avert any ill consequence
from her.  "'Tis only her loss."

The mirth went on rough and loud, and Christina felt this the worst of all the miserable meals
she had partaken of in fear and trembling at this place of her captivity.  Ermentrude, too,
was soon in such a state of excitement, that not only was Christina's womanhood bitterly ashamed
and grieved for her, but there was serious danger that she might at any moment break out with
some allusion to her maiden's recusancy in her reply to Sir Eberhard.

Presently however Ermentrude laid down her head and began to cry-- violent headache had come
on--and her brother took her in his arms to carry her up the stairs; but his potations had
begun before hers, and his step was far from steady; he stumbled more than once on the steps,
shook and frightened his sister, and set her down weeping petulantly.  And then came a more
terrible moment; his awe of Christina had passed away; he swore that she was a lovely maiden,
with only too free a tongue, and that a kiss must be the seal of her pardon.

A house full of intoxicated men, no living creature who would care to protect her, scarce even
her father!  But extremity of terror gave her strength.  She spoke resolutely--"Sir Eberhard,
your sister is ill--you are in no state to be here.  Go down at once, nor insult a free maiden."

Probably the low-toned softness of the voice, so utterly different from the shrill wrangling
notes of all the other women he had known, took him by surprise.  He was still sober enough
to be subdued, almost cowed, by resistance of a description unlike all he had ever seen; his
alarm at Christina's superior power returned in full force, he staggered to the stairs, Christina
rushed after him, closed the heavy door with all her force, fastened it inside, and would have
sunk down to weep but for Ermentrude's peevish wail of distress.

Happily Ermentrude was still a child, and, neglected as she had been, she still had had no
one to make her precocious in matters of this kind.  She was quite willing to take Christina's
view of the case, and not resent the exclusion of her brother; indeed, she was unwell enough
to dread the loudness of his voice and rudeness of his revelry.

So the door remained shut, and Christina's resolve was taken that she would so keep it while
the wine lasted.  And, indeed, Ermentrude had so much fever all that night and the next day
that no going down could be thought of.  Nobody came near the maidens but Ursel, and she described
one continued orgie that made Christina shudder again with fear and disgust.  Those below revelled
without interval, except for sleep; and they took their sleep just where they happened to sink
down, then returned again to the liquor.  The old baroness repaired to the kitchen when the
revelry went beyond even her bearing; but all the time the wine held out, the swine in the
court were, as Ursel averred, better company than the men in the hall.  Yet there might have
been worse even than this; for old Ursel whispered that at the bottom of the stairs there was
a trap-door.  Did the maiden know what it covered?  It was an oubliette.  There was once a
Strasburg armourer who had refused ransom, and talked of appealing to the Kaiser.  He trod
on that door and--Ursel pointed downwards.  "But since that time," she said, "my young lord
has never brought home a prisoner."

No wonder that all this time Christina cowered at the discordant sounds below, trembled, and
prayed while she waited on her poor young charge, who tossed and moaned in fever and suffering.
She was still far from recovered when the materials of the debauch failed, and the household
began to return to its usual state.  She was soon restlessly pining for her brother; and when
her father came up to see her, received him with scant welcome, and entreaties for Ebbo.  She
knew she should be better if she might only sit on his knee, and lay her head on his shoulder.
The old Freiherr offered to accommodate her; but she rejected him petulantly, and still called
for Ebbo, till he went down, promising that her brother should come.

With a fluttering heart Christina awaited the noble whom she had perhaps insulted, and whose
advances had more certainly insulted her. Would he visit her with his anger, or return to that
more offensive familiarity?  She longed to flee out of sight, when, after a long interval,
his heavy tread was heard; but she could not even take refuge in her turret, for Ermentrude
was leaning against her. Somehow, the step was less assured than usual; he absolutely knocked
at the door; and, when he came in, he acknowledged her by a slight inclination of the head.
If she only had known it, this was the first time that head had ever been bent to any being,
human or Divine; but all she did perceive was that Sir Eberhard was in neither of the moods
she dreaded, only desperately shy and sheepish, and extremely ashamed, not indeed of his excess,
which would have been, even to a much tamer German baron, only a happy accident, but of what
had passed between himself and her.

He was much grieved to perceive how much ground Ermentrude had lost, and gave himself up to
fondling and comforting her; and in a few days more, in their common cares for the sister,
Christina lost her newly- acquired horror of the brother, and could not but be grateful for
his forbearance; while she was almost entertained by the increased awe of herself shown by
this huge robber baron.

CHAPTER IV:  SNOW-WREATHS WHEN 'TIS THAW

Ermentrude had by no means recovered the ground she had lost, before the winter set in; and
blinding snow came drifting down day and night, rendering the whole view, above and below,
one expanse of white, only broken by the peaks of rock which were too steep to sustain the
snow.  The waterfall lengthened its icicles daily, and the whole court was heaped with snow,
up even to the top of the high steps to the hall; and thus, Christina was told, would it continue
all the winter.  What had previously seemed to her a strangely door- like window above the
porch now became the only mode of egress, when the barons went out bear or wolf-hunting, or
the younger took his crossbow and hound to provide the wild-fowl, which, under Christina's
skilful hands, would tempt the feeble appetite of Ermentrude when she was utterly unable to
touch the salted meats and sausages of the household.

In spite of all endeavours to guard the windows and keep up the fire, the cold withered the
poor child like a fading leaf, and she needed more and more of tenderness and amusement to
distract her attention from her ailments.  Christina's resources were unfailing.  Out of the
softer pine and birch woods provided for the fire, she carved a set of draughtsmen, and made
a board by ruling squares on the end of a settle, and painting the alternate ones with a compound
of oil and charcoal.  Even the old Baron was delighted with this contrivance, and the pleasure
it gave his daughter.  He remembered playing at draughts in that portion of his youth which
had been a shade more polished, and he felt as if the game were making Ermentrude more hike
a lady.  Christina was encouraged to proceed with a set of chessmen, and the shaping of their
characteristic heads under her dexterous fingers was watched by Ermentrude like something magical.
Indeed, the young lady entertained the belief that there was no limit to her attendant's knowledge
or capacity.

Truly there was a greater brightness and clearness beginning to dawn even upon poor little
Ermentrude's own dull mind.  She took more interest in everything:  songs were not solely lullabies,
but she cared to talk them over; tales to which she would once have been incapable of paying
attention were eagerly sought after; and, above all, the spiritual vacancy that her mind had
hitherto presented was beginning to be filled up.  Christina had brought her own books--a library
of extraordinary extent for a maiden of the fifteenth century, but which she owed to her uncle's
connexion with the arts of wood-cutting and printing.  A Vulgate from Dr. Faustus's own press,
a mass book and breviary, Thomas a Kempis's Imitation and the Nuremburg Chronicle all in Latin,
and the poetry of the gentle Minnesinger and bird lover, Walther von Vogelweide, in the vernacular:
these were her stock, which Hausfrau Johanna had viewed as a foolish encumbrance, and Hugh
Sorel would never have transported to the castle unless they had been so well concealed in
Christina's kirtles that he had taken them for parts of her wardrobe.

Most precious were they now, when, out of the reach of all teaching save her own, she had to
infuse into the sinking girl's mind the great mysteries of life and death, that so she might
not leave the world without more hope or faith than her heathen forefathers.  For that Ermentrude
would live Christina had never hoped, since that fleeting improvement had been cut short by
the fever of the wine-cup; the look, voice, and tone had become so completely the same as those
of Regina Grundt's little sister who had pined and died.  She knew she could not cure, but
she could, she felt she could, comfort, cheer, and soften, and she no longer repined at her
enforced sojourn at Adlerstein.  She heartily loved her charge, and could not bear to think
how desolate Ermentrude would be without her.  And now the poor girl had become responsive
to her care.  She was infinitely softened in manner, and treated her parents with forms of
respect new to them; she had learnt even to thank old Ursel, dropped her imperious tone, and
struggled with her petulance; and, towards her brother, the domineering, uncouth adherence
was becoming real, tender affection; while the dependent, reverent love she bestowed upon Christina
was touching and endearing in the extreme.

Freiherr von Adlerstein saw the change, and congratulated himself on the effect of having a
town-bred bower woman; nay, spoke of the advantage it would be to his daughter, if he could
persuade himself to make the submission to the Kaiser which the late improvements decided on
at the Diet were rendering more and more inevitable.  NOW how happy would be the winner of
his gentle Ermentrude!

Freiherrinn von Adlerstein thought the alteration the mere change from child to woman, and
felt insulted by the supposition that any one might not have been proud to match with a daughter
of Adlerstein, be she what she might.  As to submission to the Kaiser, that was mere folly
and weakness--kaisers, kings, dukes, and counts had broken their teeth against the rock of
Adlerstein before now!  What had come over her husband and her son to make them cravens?

For Freiherr Eberhard was more strongly convinced than was his father of the untenableness
of their present position.  Hugh Sorel's reports of what he heard at Ulm had shown that the
league that had been discussed at Regensburg was far more formidable than anything that had
ever previously threatened Schloss Adlerstein, and that if the Graf von Schlangenwald joined
in the coalition, there would be private malice to direct its efforts against the Adlerstein
family. Feud-letters or challenges had been made unlawful for ten years, and was not Adlerstein
at feud with the world?

Nor did Eberhard look on the submission with the sullen rage and grief that his father felt
in bringing himself to such a declension from the pride of his ancestors.  What the young Baron
heard up stairs was awakening in him a sense of the poorness and narrowness of his present
life.  Ermentrude never spared him what interested her; and, partly from her lips, partly through
her appeals to her attendant, he had learnt that life had better things to offer than independence
on these bare rocks, and that homage might open the way to higher and worthier exploits than
preying upon overturned waggons.

Dietrich of Berne and his two ancestors, whose lengthy legend Christina could sing in a low,
soft recitative, were revelations to him of what she meant by a true knight--the lion in war,
the lamb in peace; the quaint oft-repeated portraits, and still quainter cities, of the Chronicle,
with her explanations and translations, opened his mind to aspirations for intercourse with
his fellows, for an honourable name, and for esteem in its degree such as was paid to Sir Parzival,
to Karl the Great, or to Rodolf of Hapsburgh, once a mountain lord like himself.  Nay, as Ermentrude
said, stroking his cheek, and smoothing the flaxen beard, that somehow had become much less
rough and tangled than it used to be, "Some day wilt thou be another Good Freiherr Eberhard,
whom all the country-side loved, and who gave bread at the castle-gate to all that hungered."

Her brother believed nothing of her slow declension in strength, ascribing all the change he
saw to the bitter cold, and seeing but little even of that alteration, though he spent many
hours in her room, holding her in his arms, amusing her, or talking to her and to Christina.
All Christina's fear of him was gone.  As long as there was no liquor in the house, and he
was his true self, she felt him to be a kind friend, bound to her by strong sympathy in the
love and care for his sister.  She could talk almost as freely before him as when alone with
her young lady; and as Ermentrude's religious feelings grew stronger, and were freely expressed
to him, surely his attention was not merely kindness and patience with the sufferer.

The girl's soul ripened rapidly under the new influences during her bodily decay; and, as the
days lengthened, and the stern hold of winter relaxed upon the mountains, Christina looked
with strange admiration upon the expression that had dawned upon the features once so vacant
and dull, and listened with the more depth of reverence to the sweet words of faith, hope and
love, because she felt that a higher, deeper teaching than she could give must have come to
mould the spirit for the new world to which it was hastening.

"Like an army defeated, The snow had retreated,"

out of the valley, whose rich green shone smiling round the pool into which the Debateable
Ford spread.  The waterfall had burst its icy bonds, and dashed down with redoubled voice,
roaring rather than babbling.  Blue and pink hepaticas--or, as Christina called them, liver-krauts--had
pushed up their starry heads, and had even been gathered by Sir Eberhard, and laid on his sister's
pillow.  The dark peaks of rock came out all glistening with moisture, and the snow only retained
possession of the deep hollows and crevices, into which however its retreat was far more graceful
than when, in the city, it was trodden by horse and man, and soiled with smoke.

Christina dreaded indeed that the roads should be open, but she could not love the snow; it
spoke to her of dreariness, savagery, and captivity, and she watched the dwindling stripes
with satisfaction, and hailed the fall of the petty avalanches from one Eagle's Step to another
as her forefathers might have rejoiced in the defeat of the Frost giants.

But Ermentrude had a love for the white sheet that lay covering a gorge running up from the
ravine.  She watched its diminution day by day with a fancy that she was melting away with
it; and indeed it was on the very day that a succession of drifting showers had left the sheet
alone, and separated it from the masses of white above, that it first fully dawned upon the
rest of the family that, for the little daughter of the house, spring was only bringing languor
and sinking instead of recovery.

Then it was that Sir Eberhard first really listened to her entreaty that she might not die
without a priest, and comforted her by passing his word to her that, if--he would not say when--the
time drew near, he would bring her one of the priests who had only come from St. Ruprecht's
cloister on great days, by a sort of sufferance, to say mass at the Blessed Friedmund's hermitage
chapel.

The time was slow in coming.  Easter had passed with Ermentrude far too ill for Christina to
make the effort she had intended of going to the church, even if she could get no escort but
old Ursel--the sheet of snow had dwindled to a mere wreath--the ford looked blue in the sunshine--the
cascade tinkled merrily down its rock--mountain primroses peeped out, when, as Father Norbert
came forth from saying his ill-attended Pentecostal mass, and was parting with the infirm peasant
hermit, a tall figure strode up the pass, and, as the villagers fell back to make way, stood
before the startled priest, and said, in a voice choked with grief, "Come with me."

"Who needs me?" began the astonished monk.

"Follow him not, father!" whispered the hermit.  "It is the young Freiherr.--Oh have mercy
on him, gracious sir; he has done your noble lordships no wrong."

"I mean him no ill," replied Eberhard, clearing his voice with difficulty; "I would but have
him do his office.  Art thou afraid, priest?"

"Who needs my office?" demanded Father Norbert.  "Show me fit cause, and what should I dread?
Wherefore dost thou seek me?"

"For my sister," replied Eberhard, his voice thickening again.  "My little sister lies at the
point of death, and I have sworn to her that a priest she shall have.  Wilt thou come, or shall
I drag thee down the pass?"

"I come, I come with all my heart, sir knight," was the ready response.  "A few moments and
I am at your bidding."

He stepped back into the hermit's cave, whence a stair led up to the chapel.  The anchorite
followed him, whispering--"Good father, escape!  There will be full time ere he misses you.
The north door leads to the Gemsbock's Pass; it is open now."

"Why should I baulk him?  Why should I deny my office to the dying?" said Norbert.

"Alas! holy father, thou art new to this country, and know'st not these men of blood!  It is
a snare to make the convent ransom thee, if not worse.  The Freiherrinn is a fiend for malice,
and the Freiherr is excommunicate."

"I know it, my son," said Norbert; "but wherefore should their child perish unassoilzied?"

"Art coming, priest?" shouted Eberhard, from his stand at the mouth of the cave.

And, as Norbert at once appeared with the pyx and other appliances that he had gone to fetch,
the Freiherr held out his hand with an offer to "carry his gear for him;" and, when the monk
refused, with an inward shudder at entrusting a sacred charge to such unhallowed hands, replied,
"You will have work enow for both hands ere the castle is reached."

But Father Norbert was by birth a sturdy Switzer, and thought little of these Swabian Alps;
and he climbed after his guide through the most rugged passages of Eberhard's shortest and
most perpendicular cut without a moment's hesitation, and with agility worthy of a chamois.
The young baron turned for a moment, when the level of the castle had been gained, perhaps
to see whether he were following, but at the same time came to a sudden, speechless pause.

On the white masses of vapour that floated on the opposite side of the mountain was traced
a gigantic shadowy outline of a hermit, with head bent eagerly forward, and arm outstretched.

The monk crossed himself.  Eberhard stood still for a moment, and then said, hoarsely,--"The
Blessed Friedmund!  He is come for her;" then strode on towards the postern gate, followed
by Brother Norbert, a good deal reassured both as to the genuineness of the young Baron's message
and the probable condition of the object of his journey, since the patron saint of her race
was evidently on the watch to speed her departing spirit.

Sir Eberhard led the way up the turret stairs to the open door, and the monk entered the death-chamber.
The elder Baron sat near the fire in the large wooden chair, half turned towards his daughter,
as one who must needs be present, but with his face buried in his hands, unable to endure the
spectacle.  Nearer was the tall form of his wife, standing near the foot of the bed, her stern,
harsh features somewhat softened by the feelings of the moment.  Ursel waited at hand, with
tears running down her furrowed cheeks.

For such as these Father Norbert was prepared; but he little expected to meet so pure and sweet
a gaze of reverential welcome as beamed on him from the soft, dark eyes of the little white-checked
maiden who sat on the bed, holding the sufferer in her arms.  Still less had he anticipated
the serene blessedness that sat on the wasted features of the dying girl, and all the anguish
of labouring breath.

She smiled a smile of joy, held up her hand, and thanked her brother. Her father scarcely lifted
his head, her mother made a rigid curtsey, and with a grim look of sorrow coming over her features,
laid her hand over the old Baron's shoulder.  "Come away, Herr Vater," she said; "he is going
to hear her confession, and make her too holy for the like of us to touch."

The old man rose up, and stepped towards his child.  Ermentrude held out her arms to him, and
murmured -

"Father, father, pardon me; I would have been a better daughter if I had only known--"  He
gathered her in his arms; he was quite past speaking; and they only heard his heavy breathing,
and one more whisper from Ermentrude--"And oh! father, one day wilt thou seek to be absolved?"
Whether he answered or not they knew not; he only gave her repeated kisses, and laid her down
on her pillows, then rushed to the door, and the passionate sobs of the strong man's uncontrolled
nature might be heard upon the stair.  The parting with the others was not necessarily so complete,
as they were not, like him, under censure of the Church; but Kunigunde leant down to kiss her;
and, in return to her repetition of her entreaty for pardon, replied, "Thou hast it, child,
if it will ease thy mind; but it is all along of these new fancies that ever an Adlerstein
thought of pardon.  There, there, I blame thee not, poor maid; it thou wert to die, it may
be even best as it is.  Now must I to thy father; he is troubled enough about this gear."

But when Eberhard moved towards his sister, she turned to the priest, and said, imploringly,
"Not far, not far!  Oh! let them," pointing to Eberhard and Christina, "let them not be quite
out of sight!"

"Out of hearing is all that is needed, daughter," replied the priest; and Ermentrude looked
content as Christina moved towards the empty north turret, where, with the door open, she was
in full view, and Eberhard followed her thither.  It was indeed fully out of earshot of the
child's faint, gasping confession.  Gravely and sadly both stood there.  Christina looked up
the hillside for the snow-wreath.  The May sunshine had dissolved it; the green pass lay sparkling
without a vestige of its white coating.  Her eyes full of tears, she pointed the spot out to
Eberhard.  He understood; but, leaning towards her, told, under his breath, of the phantom
he had seen.  Her eyes expanded with awe of the supernatural.  "It was the Blessed Friedmund,"
said Eberhard.  "Never hath he so greeted one of our race since the pious Freiherrinn Hildegarde.
Maiden, hast thou brought us back a blessing?"

"Ah! well may she be blessed--well may the saints stoop to greet her," murmured Christina,
with strangled voice, scarcely able to control her sobs.

Father Norbert came towards them.  The simple confession had been heard, and he sought the
aid of Christina in performing the last rites of the Church.

"Maiden," he said to her, "thou hast done a great and blessed work, such as many a priest might
envy thee."

Eberhard was not excluded during the final services by which the soul was to be dismissed from
its earthly dwelling-place.  True, he comprehended little of their import, and nothing of the
words, but he gazed meekly, with uncovered head, and a bewildered look of sadness, while Christina
made her responses and took her part with full intelligence and deep fervour, sorrowing indeed
for the companion who had become so dear to her, but deeply thankful for the spiritual consolation
that had come at last.  Ermentrude lay calm, and, as it were, already rapt into a higher world,
lighting up at the German portions of the service, and not wholly devoid of comprehension of
the spirit even of the Latin, as indeed she had come to the border of the region where human
tongues and languages are no more.

She was all but gone when the rite of extreme unction was completed, and they could only stand
round her, Eberhard, Christina, Ursel, and the old Baroness, who had returned again, watching
the last flutterings of the breath, the window thrown wide open that nothing might impede the
passage of the soul to the blue vault above.

The priest spoke the beautiful commendation, "Depart, O Christian soul."  There was a faint
gesture in the midst for Christina to lift her in her arms--a sign to bend down and kiss her
brow--but her last look was for her brother, her last murmur, "Come after me; be the Good Baron
Ebbo."

CHAPTER V:  THE YOUNG FREIHERR

Ermentrude von Adlerstein slept with her forefathers in the vaults of the hermitage chapel,
and Christina Sorel's work was done.

Surely it was time for her to return home, though she should be more sorry to leave the mountain
castle than she could ever have believed possible.  She entreated her father to take her home,
but she received a sharp answer that she did not know what she was talking of:  the Schlangenwald
Reitern were besetting all the roads; and moreover the Ulm burghers had taken the capture of
the Constance wine in such dudgeon that for a retainer of Adlerstein to show himself in the
streets would be an absolute asking for the wheel.

But was there any hope for her?  Could he not take her to some nunnery midway, and let her
write to her uncle to fetch her from thence?

He swore at woman's pertinacity, but allowed at last that if the plan, talked of by the Barons,
of going to make their submission to the Emperor at Linz, with a view to which all violence
at the ford had ceased, should hold good, it might be possible thus to drop her on their way.

With this Christina must needs content herself.  Poor child, not only had Ermentrude's death
deprived her of the sole object of her residence at Schloss Adlerstein, but it had infinitely
increased the difficulties of her position.  No one interfered with her possession of the upper
room and its turrets; and it was only at meal times that she was obliged to mingle with the
other inhabitants, who, for the most part, absolutely overlooked the little shrinking pale
maiden but with one exception, and that the most perplexing of all.  She had been on terms
with Freiherr Eberhard that were not so easily broken off as if she had been an old woman of
Ursel's age.  All through his sister's decline she had been his comforter, assistant, director,
living in intercourse and sympathy that ought surely to cease when she was no longer his sister's
attendant, yet which must be more than ever missed in the full freshness of the stroke.

Even on the earliest day of bereavement, a sudden thought of Hausfrau Johanna flashed upon
Christina, and reminded her of the guard she must keep over herself if she would return to
Ulm the same modest girl whom her aunt could acquit of all indiscretion.  Her cheeks flamed,
as she sat alone, with the very thought, and the next time she heard the well-known tread on
the stair, she fled hastily into her own turret chamber, and shut the door.  Her heart beat
fast.  She could hear Sir Eberhard moving about the room, and listened to his heavy sigh as
he threw himself into the large chair.  Presently he called her by name, and she felt it needful
to open her door and answer, respectfully,

"What would you, my lord?"

"What would I?  A little peace, and heed to her who is gone.  To see my father and mother one
would think that a partridge had but flown away.  I have seen my father more sorrowful when
his dog had fallen over the abyss."

"Mayhap there is more sorrow for a brute that cannot live again," said Christina.  "Our bird
has her nest by an Altar that is lovelier and brighter than even our Dome Kirk will ever be."

"Sit down, Christina," he said, dragging a chair nearer the hearth. "My heart is sore, and
I cannot bear the din below.  Tell me where my bird is flown."

"Ah! sir; pardon me.  I must to the kitchen," said Christina, crossing her hands over her breast,
to still her trembling heart, for she was very sorry for his grief, but moving resolutely.

"Must?  And wherefore?  Thou hast nought to do there; speak truth! Why not stay with me?" and
his great light eyes opened wide.

"A burgher maid may not sit down with a noble baron."

"The devil!  Has my mother been plaguing thee, child?"

"No, my lord," said Christina, "she reeks not of me; but"--steadying her voice with great difficulty--"it
behoves me the more to be discreet."

"And you would not have me come here!" he said, with a wistful tone of reproach.

"I have no power to forbid you; but if you do, I must betake me to Ursel in the kitchen," said
Christina, very low, trembling and half choked.

"Among the rude wenches there!" he cried, starting up.  "Nay, nay, that shall not be!  Rather
will I go."

"But this is very cruel of thee, maiden," he added, lingering, "when I give thee my knightly
word that all should be as when she whom we both loved was here," and his voice shook.

"It could not so be, my lord," returned Christina with drooping, blushing face; "it would not
be maidenly in me.  Oh, my lord, you are kind and generous, make it not hard for me to do what
other maidens less lonely have friends to do for them!"

"Kind and generous?" said Eberhard, leaning over the back of the chair as if trying to begin
a fresh score.  "This from you, who told me once I was no true knight!"

"I shall call you a true knight with all my heart," cried Christina, the tears rushing into
her eyes, "if you will respect my weakness and loneliness."

He stood up again, as if to move away; then paused, and, twisting his gold chain, said, "And
how am I ever to be what the happy one bade me, if you will not show me how?"

"My error would never show you the right," said Christina, with a strong effort at firmness,
and retreating at once through the door of the staircase, whence she made her way to the kitchen,
and with great difficulty found an excuse for her presence there.

It had been a hard struggle with her compassion and gratitude, and, poor little Christina felt
with dismay, with something more than these.  Else why was it that, even while principle and
better sense summoned her back to Ulm, she experienced a deadly weariness of the city-pent
air, of the grave, heavy roll of the river, nay, even of the quiet, well-regulated household?
Why did such a marriage as she had thought her natural destiny, with some worthy, kind-hearted
brother of the guild, become so hateful to her that she could only aspire to a convent life?
This same burgomaster would be an estimable man, no doubt, and those around her were ruffians,
but she felt utterly contemptuous and impatient of him.  And why was the interchange of greetings,
the few words at meals, worth all the rest of the day besides to her?  Her own heart was the
traitor, and to her own sensations the poor little thing had, in spirit at least, transgressed
all Aunt Johanna's precepts against young Barons.  She wept apart, and resolved, and prayed,
cruelly ashamed of every start of joy or pain that the sight of Eberhard cost her.  From almost
the first he had sat next her at the single table that accommodated the whole household at
meals, and the custom continued, though on some days he treated her with sullen silence, which
she blamed herself for not rejoicing in, sometimes he spoke a few friendly words; but he observed,
better than she could have dared to expect, her test of his true knighthood, and never again
forced himself into her apartment, though now and then he came to the door with flowers, with
mountain strawberries, and once with two young doves.  "Take them, Christina," he said, "they
are very like yourself;" and he always delayed so long that she was forced to be resolute,
and shut the door on him at last.

Once, when there was to be a mass at the chapel, Hugh Sorel, between a smile and a growl, informed
his daughter that he would take her thereto.  She gladly prepared, and, bent on making herself
agreeable to her father, did not once press on him the necessity of her return to Ulm.  To
her amazement and pleasure, the young Baron was at church, and when on the way home, he walked
beside her mule, she could see no need of sending him away.

He had been in no school of the conventionalities of life, and, when he saw that Hugh Sorel's
presence had obtained him this favour, he wistfully asked, "Christina, if I bring your father
with me, will you not let me in?"

"Entreat me not, my lord," she answered, with fluttering breath.

She felt the more that she was right in this decision, when she encountered her father's broad
grin of surprise and diversion, at seeing the young Baron help her to dismount.  It was a look
of receiving an idea both new, comical, and flattering, but by no means the look of a father
who would resent the indignity of attentions to his daughter from a man whose rank formed an
insuperable barrier to marriage.

The effect was a new, urgent, and most piteous entreaty, that he would find means of sending
her home.  It brought upon her the hearing put into words what her own feelings had long shrunk
from confessing to herself.

"Ah!  Why, what now?  What, is the young Baron after thee?  Ha! ha! petticoats are few enough
up here, but he must have been ill off ere he took to a little ghost like thee!  I saw he was
moping and doleful, but I thought it was all for his sister."

"And so it is, father."

"Tell me that, when he watches every turn of that dark eye of thine-- the only good thing thou
took'st of mine!  Thou art a witch, Stina."

"Hush, oh hush, for pity's sake, father, and let me go home!"

"What, thou likest him not?  Thy mind is all for the mincing goldsmith opposite, as I ever
told thee."

"My mind is--is to return to my uncle and aunt the true-hearted maiden they parted with," said
Christina, with clasped hands.  "And oh, father, as you were the son of a true and faithful
mother, be a father to me now!  Jeer not your motherless child, but protect her and help her."

Hugh Sorel was touched by this appeal, and he likewise recollected how much it was for his
own interest that his brother should be satisfied with the care he took of his daughter.  He
became convinced that the sooner she was out of the castle the better, and at length bethought
him that, among the merchants who frequented the Midsummer Fair at the Blessed Friedmund's
Wake, a safe escort might be found to convey her back to Ulm.

If the truth were known, Hugh Sorel was not devoid of a certain feeling akin to contempt, both
for his young master's taste, and for his forbearance in not having pushed matters further
with a being so helpless, meek, and timid as Christina, more especially as such slackness had
not been his wont in other cases where his fancy had been caught.

But Sorel did not understand that it was not physical beauty that here had been the attraction,
though to some persons, the sweet, pensive eyes, the delicate, pure skin, the slight, tender
form, might seem to exceed in loveliness the fully developed animal comeliness chiefly esteemed
at Adlerstein.  It was rather the strangeness of the power and purity of this timid, fragile
creature, that had struck the young noble.  With all their brutal manners reverence for a lofty
female nature had been in the German character ever since their Velleda prophesied to them,
and this reverence in Eberhard bowed at the feet of the pure gentle maiden, so strong yet so
weak, so wistful and entreating even in her resolution, refined as a white flower on a heap
of refuse, wise and dexterous beyond his slow and dull conception, and the first being in whom
he had ever seen piety or goodness; and likewise with a tender, loving spirit of consolation
such as he had both beheld and tasted by his sister's deathbed.

There was almost a fear mingled with his reverence.  If he had been more familiar with the
saints, he would thus have regarded the holy virgin martyrs, nay, even Our Lady herself; and
he durst not push her so hard as to offend her, and excite the anger or the grief that he alike
dreaded.  He was wretched and forlorn without the resources he had found in his sister's room;
the new and better cravings of his higher nature had been excited only to remain unsupplied
and disappointed; and the affectionate heart in the freshness of its sorrow yearned for the
comfort that such conversation had supplied: but the impression that had been made on him was
still such, that he knew that to use rough means of pressing his wishes would no more lead
to his real gratification than it would to appropriate a snow- bell by crushing it in his gauntlet.

And it was on feeble little Christina, yielding in heart, though not in will, that it depended
to preserve this reverence, and return unscathed from this castle, more perilous now than ever.

CHAPTER VI:  THE BLESSED FRIEDMUND'S WAKE

Midsummer-Day arrived, and the village of Adlerstein presented a most unusual spectacle.  The
wake was the occasion of a grand fair for all the mountain-side, and it was an understood thing
that the Barons, instead of molesting the pedlars, merchants, and others who attended it, contented
themselves with demanding a toll from every one who passed the Kohler's hut on the one side,
or the Gemsbock's Pass on the other; and this toll, being the only coin by which they came
honestly in the course of the year, was regarded as a certainty and highly valued.  Moreover,
it was the only time that any purchases could be made, and the flotsam of the ford did not
always include all even of the few requirements of the inmates of the castle; it was the only
holiday, sacred or secular, that ever gladdened the Eagle's Rock.

So all the inmates of the castle prepared to enjoy themselves, except the heads of the house.
The Freiherr had never been at one of these wakes since the first after he was excommunicated,
when he had stalked round to show his indifference to the sentence; and the Freiherrinn snarled
out such sentences of disdain towards the concourse, that it might be supposed that she hated
the sight of her kind; but Ursel had all the household purchases to make, and the kitchen underlings
were to take turns to go and come, as indeed were the men-at-arms, who were set to watch the
toll-bars.

Christina had packed up a small bundle, for the chance of being unable to return to the castle
without missing her escort, though she hoped that the fair might last two days, and that she
should thus be enabled to return and bring away the rest of her property.  She was more and
more resolved on going, but her heart was less and less inclined to departure.  And bitter
had been her weeping through all the early light hours of the long morning--weeping that she
tried to think was all for Ermentrude; and all, amid prayers she could scarce trust herself
to offer, that the generous, kindly nature might yet work free of these evil surroundings,
and fulfil the sister's dying wish, she should never see it; but, when she should hear that
the Debateable Ford was the Friendly Ford, then would she know that it was the doing of the
Good Baron Ebbo.  Could she venture on telling him so?  Or were it not better that there were
no farewell?  And she wept again that he should think her ungrateful.  She could not persuade
herself to release the doves, but committed the charge to Ursel to let them go in case she
should not return.

So tear-stained was her face, that, ashamed that it should be seen, she wrapped it closely
in her hood and veil when she came down and joined her father.  The whole scene swam in tears
before her eyes when she saw the whole green slope from the chapel covered with tents and booths,
and swarming with pedlars and mountaineers in their picturesque dresses.  Women and girls were
exchanging the yarn of their winter's spinning for bright handkerchiefs; men drove sheep, goats,
or pigs to barter for knives, spades, or weapons; others were gazing at simple shows--a dancing
bear or ape--or clustering round a Minnesinger; many even then congregating in booths for the
sale of beer.  Further up, on the flat space of sward above the chapel, were some lay brothers,
arranging for the representation of a mystery--a kind of entertainment which Germany owed to
the English who came to the Council of Constance, and which the monks of St. Ruprecht's hoped
might infuse some religious notions into the wild, ignorant mountaineers.

First however Christina gladly entered the church.  Crowded though it were, it was calmer than
the busy scene without.  Faded old tapestry was decking its walls, representing apparently
some subject entirely alien to St. John or the blessed hermit; Christina rather thought it
was Mars and Venus, but that was all the same to every one else.  And there was a terrible
figure of St. John, painted life-like, with a real hair-cloth round his loins, just opposite
to her, on the step of the Altar; also poor Friedmund's bones, dressed up in a new serge amice
and hood; the stone from Nicaea was in a gilded box, ready in due time to be kissed; and a
preaching friar (not one of the monks of St. Ruprecht's) was in the midst of a sermon, telling
how St. John presided at the Council of Nicaea till the Emperor Maximius cut off his head at
the instance of Herodius--full justice being done to the dancing--and that the blood was sprinkled
on this very stone, whereupon our Holy Father the Pope decreed that whoever would kiss the
said stone, and repeat the Credo five times afterwards, should be capable of receiving an indulgence
for 500 years:  which indulgence must however be purchased at the rate of six groschen, to
be bestowed in alms at Rome.  And this inestimable benefit he, poor Friar Peter, had come from
his brotherhood of St. Francis at Offingen solely to dispense to the poor mountaineers.

It was disappointing to find this profane mummery going on instead of the holy services to
which Christina had looked forward for strength and comfort; she was far too well instructed
not to be scandalized at the profane deception which was ripening fast for Luther, only thirty
years later; and, when the stone was held up by the friar in one hand, the printed briefs of
indulgence in the other, she shrunk back. Her father however said, "Wilt have one, child? 
Five hundred years is no bad bargain."

"My uncle has small trust in indulgences," she whispered.

"All lies, of course," quoth Hugh; "yet they've the Pope's seal, and I have more than half
a mind to get one.  Five hundred years is no joke, and I am sure of purgatory, since I bought
this medal at the Holy House of Loretto."

And he went forward, and invested six groschen in one of the papers, the most religious action
poor Christina had ever seen him perform. Other purchasers came forward--several, of the castle
knappen, and a few peasant women who offered yarn or cheeses as equivalents for money, but
were told with some insolence to go and sell their goods, and bring the coin.

After a time, the friar, finding his traffic slack, thought fit to remove, with his two lay
assistants, outside the chapel, and try the effects of an out-of-door sermon.  Hugh Sorel,
who had been hitherto rather diverted by the man's gestures and persuasions, now decided on
going out into the fair in quest of an escort for his daughter, but as she saw Father Norbert
and another monk ascending from the stairs leading to the hermit's cell, she begged to be allowed
to remain in the church, where she was sure to be safe, instead of wandering about with him
in the fair.

He was glad to be unencumbered, though he thought her taste unnatural; and, promising to return
for her when he had found an escort, he left her.

Father Norbert had come for the very purpose of hearing confessions, and Christina's next hour
was the most comfortable she had spent since Ermentrude's death.

After this however the priests were called away, and long, long did Christina first kneel and
then sit in the little lonely church, hearing the various sounds without, and imagining that
her father had forgotten her, and that he and all the rest were drinking, and then what would
become of her?  Why had she quitted old Ursel's protection?

Hours of waiting and nameless alarm must have passed, for the sun was waxing low, when at length
she heard steps coming up the hermit's cell, and a head rose above the pavement which she recognized
with a wild throb of joy, but, repressing her sense of gladness, she only exclaimed, "Oh, where
is my father!"

"I have sent him to the toll at the Gemsbock's Pass," replied Sir Eberhard, who had by this
time come up the stairs, followed by Brother Peter and the two lay assistants.  Then, as Christina
turned on him her startled, terrified eyes in dismay and reproach for such thoughtlessness,
he came towards her, and, bending his head and opening his hand, he showed on his palm two
gold rings.  "There, little one," he said; "now shalt thou never again shut me out."

Her senses grew dizzy.  "Sir," she faintly said, "this is no place to delude a poor maiden."

"I delude thee not.  The brother here waits to wed us."

"Impossible!  A burgher maid is not for such as you."

"None but a burgher maid will I wed," returned Sir Eberhard, with all the settled resolution
of habits of command.  "See, Christina, thou art sweeter and better than any lady in the land;
thou canst make me what she--the blessed one who lies there--would have me.  I love thee as
never knight loved lady.  I love thee so that I have not spoken a word to offend thee when
my heart was bursting; and"--as he saw her irrepressible tears--"I think thou lovest me a little."

"Ah!" she gasped with a sob, "let me go."

"Thou canst not go home; there is none here fit to take charge of thee.  Or if there were,
I would slay him rather than let thee go. No, not so," he said, as he saw how little those
words served his cause; "but without thee I were a mad and desperate man.  Christina, I will
not answer for myself if thou dost not leave this place my wedded wife."

"Oh!" implored Christina, "if you would only betroth me, and woo me like an honourable maiden
from my home at Ulm!"

"Betroth thee, ay, and wed thee at once," replied Eberhard, who, all along, even while his
words were most pleading, had worn a look and manner of determined authority and strength,
good-natured indeed, but resolved.  "I am not going to miss my opportunity, or baulk the friar."

The friar, who had meantime been making a few needful arrangements for the ceremony, advanced
towards them.  He was a good-humoured, easy-going man, who came prepared to do any office that
came in his way on such festival days at the villages round; and peasant marriages at such
times were not uncommon.  But something now staggered him, and he said anxiously -

"This maiden looks convent-bred!  Herr Reiter, pardon me; but if this be the breaking of a
cloister, I can have none of it."

"No such thing," said Eberhard; "she is town-bred, that is all."

"You would swear to it, on the holy mass yonder, both of you?" said the friar, still suspiciously.

"Yea," replied Eberhard, "and so dost thou, Christina."

This was the time if ever to struggle against her destiny.  The friar would probably have listened
to her if she had made any vehement opposition to a forced marriage, and if not, a few shrieks
would have brought perhaps Father Norbert, and certainly the whole population; but the horror
and shame of being found in such a situation, even more than the probability that she might
meet with vengeance rather than protection, withheld her.  Even the friar could hardly have
removed her, and this was her only chance of safety from the Baroness's fury.  Had she hated
and loathed Sir Eberhard, perhaps she had striven harder, but his whole demeanour constrained
and quelled her, and the chief effort she made against yielding was the reply, "I am no cloister
maid, holy father, but--"

The "but" was lost in the friar's jovial speech.  "Oh, then, all is well!  Take thy place,
pretty one, there, by the door, thou know'st it should be in the porch, but--ach, I understand!"
as Eberhard quietly drew the bolt within.  "No, no, little one, I have no time for bride scruples
and coyness; I have to train three dull-headed louts to be Shem, Ham, and Japhet before dark.
Hast confessed of late?"

"This morning, but--" said Christina, and "This morning," to her great joy, said Eberhard,
and, in her satisfaction thereat, her second "but" was not followed up.

The friar asked their names, and both gave the Christian name alone; then the brief and simple
rite was solemnized in its shortest form. Christina had, by very force of surprise and dismay,
gone through all without signs of agitation, except the quivering of her whole frame, and the
icy coldness of the hand, where Eberhard had to place the ring on each finger in turn.

But each mutual vow was a strange relief to her long-tossed and divided mind, and it was rest
indeed to let her affection have its will, and own him indeed as a protector to be loved instead
of shunned.  When all was over, and he gathered the two little cold hands into his large one,
his arm supporting her trembling form, she felt for the moment, poor little thing, as if she
could never be frightened again.

Parish registers were not, even had this been a parish church, but Brother Peter asked, when
he had concluded, "Well, my son, which of his flock am I to report to your Pfarrer as linked
together?"

"The less your tongue wags on that matter till I call on you, the better," was the stern reply.
"Look you, no ill shall befall you if you are wise, but remember, against the day I call you
to bear witness, that you have this day wedded Baron Eberhard von Adlerstein the younger, to
Christina, the daughter of Hugh Sorel, the Esquire of Ulm."

"Thou hast played me a trick, Sir Baron!" said the friar, somewhat dismayed, but more amused,
looking up at Eberhard, who, as Christina now saw, had divested himself of his gilt spurs,
gold chain, silvered belt and horn, and eagle's plume, so as to have passed for a simple lanzknecht.
"I would have had no such gear as this!"

"So I supposed," said Eberhard coolly.

"Young folks! young folks!" laughed the friar, changing his tone, and holding up his finger
slyly; "the little bird so cunningly nestled in the church to fly out my Lady Baroness!  Well,
so thou hast a pretty, timid lambkin there, Sir Baron.  Take care you use her mildly."

Eberhard looked into Christina's face with a smile, that to her, at least, was answer enough;
and he held out half a dozen links of his gold chain to the friar, and tossed a coin to each
of the lay brethren.

"Not for the poor friar himself," explained Brother Peter, on receiving this marriage fee;
"it all goes to the weal of the brotherhood."

"As you please," said Eberhard.  "Silence, that is all!  And thy friary--?"

"The poor house of St. Francis at Offingen for the present, noble sir," said the priest.  "There
will you hear of me, if you find me not.  And now, fare thee well, my gracious lady.  I hope
one day thou wilt have more words to thank the poor brother who has made thee a noble Baroness."

"Ah, good father, pardon my fright and confusion," Christina tried to murmur, but at that moment
a sudden glow and glare of light broke out on the eastern rock, illuminating the fast darkening
little church with a flickering glare, that made her start in terror as if the fires of heaven
were threatening this stolen marriage; but the friar and Eberhard both exclaimed, "The Needfire
alight already!"  And she recollected how often she had seen these bonfires on Midsummer night
shining red on every hill around Ulm.  Loud shouts were greeting the uprising flame, and the
people gathering thicker and thicker on the slope.  The friar undid the door to hasten out
into the throng, and Eberhard said he had left his spurs and belt in the hermit's cell, and
must return thither, after which he would walk home with his bride, moving at the same time
towards the stair, and thereby causing a sudden scuffle and fall.  "So, master hermit," quoth
Eberhard, as the old man picked himself up, looking horribly frightened; "that's your hermit's
abstraction, is it?  No whining, old man, I am not going to hurt thee, so thou canst hold thy
tongue.  Otherwise I will smoke thee out of thy hole like a wild cat!  What, thou aiding me
with my belt, my lovely one?  Thanks; the snap goes too hard for thy little hands.  Now, then,
the fire will light us gaily down the mountain side."

But it soon appeared that to depart was impossible, unless by forcing a way through the busy
throng in the full red glare of the firelight, and they were forced to pause at the opening
of the hermit's cave, Christina leaning on her husband's arm, and a fold of his mantle drawn
round her to guard her from the night-breeze of the mountain, as they waited for a quiet space
in which to depart unnoticed.  It was a strange, wild scene!  The fire was on a bare, flat
rock, which probably had been yearly so employed ever since the Kelts had brought from the
East the rite that they had handed on to the Swabians--the Beltane fire, whose like was blazing
everywhere in the Alps, in the Hartz, nay, even in England, Scotland, and on the granite points
of Ireland.  Heaped up for many previous days with faggots from the forest, then apparently
inexhaustible, the fire roared and crackled, and rose high, red and smoky, into the air, paling
the moon, and obscuring the stars.  Round it, completely hiding the bonfire itself, were hosts
of dark figures swarming to approach it--all with a purpose.  All held old shoes or superannuated
garments in their hands to feed the flame; for it was esteemed needful that every villager
should contribute something from his house--once, no doubt, as an offering to Bel, but now
as a mere unmeaning observance.  And shrieks of merriment followed the contribution of each
too well-known article of rubbish that had been in reserve for the Needfire!  Girls and boys
had nuts to throw in, in pairs, to judge by their bounces of future chances of matrimony. 
Then came a shouting, tittering, and falling back, as an old boor came forward like a priest
with something heavy and ghastly in his arms, which was thrown on with a tremendous shout,
darkened the glow for a moment, then hissed, cracked, and emitted a horrible odour.

It was a horse's head, the right owner of which had been carefully kept for the occasion, though
long past work.  Christina shuddered, and felt as if she had fallen upon a Pagan ceremony;
as indeed was true enough, only that the Adlersteiners attached no meaning to the performance,
except a vague notion of securing good luck.

With the same idea the faggots were pulled down, and arranged so as to form a sort of lane
of fire.  Young men rushed along it, and then bounded over the diminished pile, amid loud shouts
of laughter and either admiration or derision; and, in the meantime, a variety of odd, recusant
noises, grunts, squeaks, and lowings proceeding from the darkness were explained to the startled
little bride by her husband to come from all the cattle of the mountain farms around, who were
to have their weal secured by being driven through the Needfire.

It may well be imagined that the animals were less convinced of the necessity of this performance
than their masters.  Wonderful was the clatter and confusion, horrible the uproar raised behind
to make the poor things proceed at all, desperate the shout when some half- frantic creature
kicked or attempted a charge wild the glee when a persecuted goat or sheep took heart of grace,
and flashed for one moment between the crackling, flaring, smoking walls.  When one cow or
sheep off a farm went, all the others were pretty sure to follow it, and the owner had then
only to be on the watch at the other end to turn them back, with their flame-dazzled eyes,
from going unawares down the precipice, a fate from which the passing through the fire was
evidently not supposed to ensure them.  The swine, those special German delights, were of course
the most refractory of all.  Some, by dint of being pulled away from the lane of fire, were
induced to rush through it; but about half-way they generally made a bolt, either sidelong
through the flaming fence or backwards among the legs of their persecutors, who were upset
amid loud imprecations.  One huge, old, lean, high-backed sow, with a large family, truly feminine
in her want of presence of mind, actually charged into the midst of the bonfire itself, scattering
it to the right and left with her snout, and emitting so horrible a smell of singed bacon,
that it might almost be feared that some of her progeny were anticipating the invention of
Chinese roasting-pigs.  However, their proprietor, Jobst, counted them out all safe on the
other side, and there only resulted some sighs and lamentations among the seniors, such as
Hatto and Ursel, that it boded ill to have the Needfire trodden out by an old sow.

All the castle live-stock were undergoing the same ceremony. Eberhard concerned himself little
about the vagaries of the sheep and pigs, and only laughed a little as the great black goat,
who had seen several Midsummer nights, and stood on his guard, made a sudden short run and
butted down old Hatto, then skipped off like a chamois into the darkness, unheeding, the old
rogue, the whispers that connected his unlucky hue with the doings of the Walpurgisnacht. 
But when it came to the horses, Eberhard could not well endure the sight of the endeavours
to force them, snorting, rearing, and struggling, through anything so abhorrent to them as
the hedge of fire.

The Schneiderlein, with all the force of his powerful arm, had hold of Eberhard's own young
white mare, who, with ears turned back, nostrils dilated, and wild eyes, her fore-feet firmly
planted wide apart, was using her whole strength for resistance; and, when a heavy blow fell
on her, only plunged backwards, and kicked without advancing.  It was more than Eberhard could
endure, and Christina's impulse was to murmur, "O do not let him do it;" but this he scarcely
heard, as he exclaimed, "Wait for me here!" and, as he stepped forward, sent his voice before
him, forbidding all blows to the mare.

The creature's extreme terror ceased at once upon hearing his voice, and there was an instant
relaxation of all violence of resistance as he came up to her, took her halter from the Schneiderlein,
patted her glossy neck, and spoke to her.  But the tumult of warning voices around him assured
him that it would be a fatal thing to spare the steed the passage through the fire, and he
strove by encouragements and caresses with voice and hand to get her forward, leading her himself;
but the poor beast trembled so violently, and, though making a few steps forward, stopped again
in such exceeding horror of the flame, that Eberhard had not the heart to compel her, turned
her head away, and assured her that she should not be further tormented.

"The gracious lordship is wrong," said public opinion, by the voice of old Bauer Ulrich, the
sacrificer of the horse's head.  "Heaven forfend that evil befall him and that mare in the
course of the year."

And the buzz of voices concurred in telling of the recusant pigs who had never developed into
sausages, the sheep who had only escaped to be eaten by wolves, the mule whose bones had been
found at the bottom of an abyss.

Old Ursel was seriously concerned, and would have laid hold on her young master to remonstrate,
but a fresh notion had arisen--Would the gracious Freiherr set a-rolling the wheel, which was
already being lighted in the fire, and was to conclude the festivities by being propelled down
the hill--figuring, only that no one present knew it, the sun's declension from his solstitial
height?  Eberhard made no objection; and Christina, in her shelter by the cave, felt no little
dismay at being left alone there, and moreover had a strange, weird feeling at the wild, uncanny
ceremony he was engaged in, not knowing indeed that it was sun-worship, but afraid that it
could be no other than unholy sorcery.

The wheel, flaring or reddening in all its spokes, was raised from the bonfire, and was driven
down the smoothest piece of green sward, which formed an inclined plane towards the stream.
If its course was smooth, and it only became extinguished by leaping into the water, the village
would flourish; and prosperity above all was expected if it should spring over the narrow channel,
and attempt to run up the other side.  Such things had happened in the days of the good Freiherren
Ebbo and Friedel, though the wheel had never gone right since the present baron had been excommunicated;
but his heir having been twice seen at mass in this last month great hopes were founded upon him.

There was a shout to clear the slope.  Eberhard, in great earnest and some anxiety, accepted
the gauntlet that he was offered to protect his hand, steadied the wheel therewith, and, with
a vigorous impulse from hand and foot, sent it bounding down the slope, among loud cries and
a general scattering of the idlers who had crowded full into the very path of the fiery circle,
which flamed up brilliantly for the moment as it met the current of air.  But either there
was an obstacle in the way, or the young Baron's push had not been quite straight:  the wheel
suddenly swerved aside, its course swerved to the right, maugre all the objurgations addressed
to it as if it had been a living thing, and the next moment it had disappeared, all but a smoky,
smouldering spot of red, that told where it lay, charring and smoking on its side, without
having fulfilled a quarter of its course.

People drew off gravely and silently, and Eberhard himself was strangely discomfited when he
came back to the hermitage, and, wrapping Christina in his cloak, prepared to return, so soon
as the glare of the fire should have faded from his eyesight enough to make it safe to tread
so precipitous a path.  He had indeed this day made a dangerous venture, and both he and Christina
could not but feel disheartened by the issue of all the omens of the year, the more because
she had a vague sense of wrong in consulting or trusting them.  It seemed to her all one frightened,
uncomprehended dream ever since her father had left her in the chapel; and, though conscious
of her inability to have prevented her marriage, yet she blamed herself, felt despairing as
she thought of the future, and, above all, dreaded the Baron and the Baroness and their anger.
Eberhard, after his first few words, was silent, and seemed solely absorbed in leading her
safely along the rocky path, sometimes lifting her when he thought her in danger of stumbling.
It was one of the lightest, shortest nights of the year, and a young moon added to the brightness
in open places, while in others it made the rocks and stones cast strange elvish shadows. 
The distance was not entirely lost; other Beltane fires could be seen, like beacons, on every
hill, and the few lights in the castle shone out like red fiery eyes in its heavy dark pile
of building.

Before entering, Eberhard paused, pulled off his own wedding-ring, and put it into his bosom,
and taking his bride's hand in his, did the same for her, and bade her keep the ring till they
could wear them openly.

"Alas! then," said Christina, "you would have this secret?"

"Unless I would have to seek thee down the oubliette, my little one," said Eberhard "or, what
might even be worse, see thee burnt on the hillside for bewitching me with thine arts!  No,
indeed, my darling. Were it only my father, I could make him love thee; but my mother--I could
not trust her where she thought the honour of our house concerned.  It shall not be for long.
Thou know'st we are to make peace with the Kaiser, and then will I get me employment among
Kurfurst Albrecht's companies of troops, and then shalt thou prank it as my Lady Freiherrinn,
and teach me the ways of cities."

"Alas!  I fear me it has been a great sin!" sighed the poor little wife.

"For thee--thou couldst not help it," said Eberhard; "for me--who knows how many deadly ones
it may hinder?  Cheer up, little one; no one can harm thee while the secret is kept."

Poor Christina had no choice but submission; but it was a sorry bridal evening, to enter her
husband's home in shrinking terror; with the threat of the oubliette before her, and with a
sense of shame and deception hanging upon her, making the wonted scowl of the old baroness
cut her both with remorse and dread.

She did indeed sit beside her bridegroom at the supper, but how little like a bride! even though
he pushed the salt-cellar, as if by accident, below her place.  She thought of her myrtle,
tended in vain at home by Barbara Schmidt; she thought of Ulm courtships, and how all ought
to have been; the solemn embassage to her uncle, the stately negotiations; the troth plight
before the circle of ceremonious kindred and merry maidens, of whom she had often been one--the
subsequent attentions of the betrothed on all festival days, the piles of linen and all plenishings
accumulated since babyhood, and all reviewed and laid out for general admiration (Ah! poor
Aunt Johanna still spinning away to add to the many webs in her walnut presses!)--then the
grand procession to fetch home the bride, the splendid festival with the musicians, dishes,
and guest-tables to the utmost limit that was allowed by the city laws, and the bride's hair
so joyously covered by her matron's curch amid the merriment of her companion maidens.

Poor child!  After she had crept away to her own room, glad that her father was not yet returned,
she wept bitterly over the wrong that she felt she had done to the kind uncle and aunt, who
must now look in vain for their little Christina, and would think her lost to them, and to
all else that was good.  At least she had had the Church's blessing--but that, strange to say,
was regarded, in burgher life before the Reformation, as rather the ornament of a noble marriage
than as essential to the civil contract; and a marriage by a priest was regarded by the citizens
rather as a means of eluding the need of obtaining the parent's consent, than as a more regular
and devout manner of wedding.  However, Christina felt this the one drop of peace.  The blessings
and prayers were warm at her heart, and gave her hope.  And as to drops of joy, of them there
was no lack, for had not she now a right to love Eberhard with all her heart and conscience,
and was not it a wonderful love on his part that had made him stoop to the little white-faced
burgher maid, despised even by her own father?  O better far to wear the maiden's uncovered
head for him than the myrtle wreath for any one else!

CHAPTER VII:  THE SCHNEIDERLEIN'S RETURN

The poor little unowned bride had more to undergo than her imagination had conceived at the
first moment.

When she heard that the marriage was to be a secret, she had not understood that Eberhard was
by no means disposed to observe much more caution than mere silence.  A rough, though kindly
man, he did not thoroughly comprehend the shame and confusion that he was bringing upon her
by departing from his former demeanour.  He knew that, so enormous was the distance then supposed
to exist between the noble and the burgher, there was no chance of any one dreaming of the
true state of the case, and that as long as Christina was not taken for his wife, there was
no personal danger for her from his mother, who--so lax were the morals of the German nobility
with regard to all of inferior rank--would tolerate her with complacency as his favourite toy;
and he was taken by surprise at the agony of grief and shame with which she slowly comprehended
his assurance that she had nothing to fear.

There was no help for it.  The oubliette would probably be the portion of the low-born girl
who had interfered with the sixteen quarterings of the Adlerstein shield, and poor Christina
never stepped across its trap-door without a shudder lest it should open beneath her.  And
her father would probably have been hung from the highest tower, in spite of his shrewd care
to be aware of nothing. Christina consoled herself with the hope that he knew all the time
why he had been sent out of the way, for, with a broad grin that had made her blush painfully,
he had said he knew she would be well taken care of, and that he hoped she was not breaking
her heart for want of an escort.  She tried to extort Eberhard's permission to let him at least
know how it was; but Eberhard laughed, saying he believed the old fox knew just as much as
he chose; and, in effect, Sorel, though now and then gratifying his daughter's scruples, by
serving as a shield to her meetings with the young Baron, never allowed himself to hear a hint
of the true state of affairs.

Eberhard's love and reverence were undiminished, and the time spent with him would have been
perfectly happy could she ever have divested herself of anxiety and alarm; but the periods
of his absence from the castle were very terrible to her, for the other women of the household,
quick to perceive that she no longer repelled him, had lost that awe that had hitherto kept
them at a distance from her, and treated her with a familiarity, sometimes coarse, sometimes
spiteful, always hateful and degrading.  Even old Ursel had become half- pitying, half-patronizing;
and the old Baroness, though not molesting her, took not the slightest notice of her.

This state of things lasted much longer than there had been reason to expect at the time of
the marriage.  The two Freiherren then intended to set out in a very short time to make their
long talked-of submission to the Emperor at Ratisbon; but, partly from their German tardiness
of movement, partly from the obstinate delays interposed by the proud old Freiherrinn, who
was as averse as ever to the measure, partly from reports that the Court was not yet arrived
at Ratisbon, the expedition was again and again deferred, and did not actually take place till
September was far advanced.

Poor Christina would have given worlds to go with them, and even entreated to be sent to Ulm
with an avowal of her marriage to her uncle and aunt, but of this Eberhard would not hear.
He said the Ulmers would thus gain an hostage, and hamper his movements; and, if her wedding
was not to be confessed--poor child!--she could better bear to remain where she was than to
face Hausfrau Johanna.  Eberhard was fully determined to enrol himself in some troop, either
Imperial, or, if not, among the Free Companies, among whom men of rank were often found, and
he would then fetch or send for his wife and avow her openly, so soon as she should be out
of his mother's reach.  He longed to leave her father at home, to be some protection to her,
but Hugh Sorel was so much the most intelligent and skilful of the retainers as to be absolutely
indispensable to the party--he was their only scribe; and moreover his new suit of buff rendered
him a creditable member of a troop that had been very hard to equip.  It numbered about ten
men-at-arms, only three being left at home to garrison the castle--namely, Hatto, who was too
old to take; Hans, who had been hopelessly lame and deformed since the old Baron had knocked
him off a cliff in a passion; and Squinting Matz, a runaway servant, who had murdered his master,
the mayor of Strasburg, and might be caught and put to death if any one recognized him.  If
needful the villagers could always be called in to defend the castle: but of this there was
little or no danger--the Eagle's Steps were defence enough in themselves, and the party were
not likely to be absent more than a week or ten days--a grievous length of time, poor Christina
thought, as she stood straining her eyes on the top of the watch-tower, to watch them as far
as possible along the plain.  Her heart was very sad, and the omen of the burning wheel so
continually haunted her that even in her sleep that night she saw its brief course repeated,
beheld its rapid fall and extinction, and then tracked the course of the sparks that darted
from it, one rising and gleaming high in air till it shone like a star, another pursuing a
fitful and irregular, but still bright course amid the dry grass on the hillside, just as she
had indeed watched some of the sparks on that night, minding her of the words of the Allhallow-tide
legend: "Fulgebunt justi et tanquam scintillae in arundinete discurrent"--a sentence which
remained with her when awake, and led her to seek it out in her Latin Bible in the morning.

Reluctantly had she gone down to the noontide meal, feeling, though her husband and father
were far less of guardians than they should have been, yet that there was absolute rest, peace,
and protection in their presence compared with what it was to be alone with Freiherrinn Kunigunde
and her rude women without them.  A few sneers on her daintiness and uselessness had led her
to make an offer of assisting in the grand chopping of sausage meat and preparation of winter
stores, and she had been answered with contempt that my young lord would not have her soil
her delicate hands, when one of the maids who had been sent to fetch beer from the cellar came
back with startled looks, and the exclamation, "There is the Schneiderlein riding up the Eagle's
Ladder upon Freiherr Ebbo's white mare!"

All the women sprang up together, and rushed to the window, whence they could indeed recognize
both man and horse; and presently it became plain that both were stained with blood, weary,
and spent; indeed, nothing but extreme exhaustion would have induced the man-at- arms to trust
the tired, stumbling horse up such a perilous path.

Loud were the exclamations, "Ah! no good could come of not leading that mare through the Johannisfeuer."

"This shameful expedition!  Only harm could befall.  This is thy doing, thou mincing city-girl."

"All was certain to go wrong when a pale mist widow came into the place."

The angry and dismayed cries all blended themselves in confusion in the ears of the only silent
woman present; the only one that sounded distinctly on her brain was that of the last speaker,
"A pale, mist widow," as, holding herself a little in the rear of the struggling, jostling
little mob of women, who hardly made way even for their acknowledged lady, she followed with
failing limbs the universal rush to the entrance as soon as man and horse had mounted the slope
and were lost sight of.

A few moments more, and the throng of expectants was at the foot of the hall steps, just as
the lanzknecht reached the arched entrance. His comrade Hans took his bridle, and almost lifted
him from his horse; he reeled and stumbled as, pale, battered, and bleeding, he tried to advance
to Freiherinn Kunigunde, and, in answer to her hasty interrogation, faltered out, "Ill news,
gracious lady.  We have been set upon by the accursed Schlangenwaldern, and I am the only living
man left."

Christina scarce heard even these last words; senses and powers alike failed her, and she sank
back on the stone steps in a deathlike swoon.

When she came to herself she was lying on her bed, Ursel and Else, another of the women, busy
over her, and Ursel's voice was saying, "Ah, she is coming round.  Look up, sweet lady, and
fear not.  You are our gracious Lady Baroness."

"Is he here?  O, has he said so?  O, let me see him--Sir Eberhard," faintly cried Christina
with sobbing breath.

"Ah, no, no," said the old woman; "but see here," and she lifted up Christina's powerless,
bloodless hand, and showed her the ring on the finger.  Her bosom had been evidently searched
when her dress was loosened in her swoon, and her ring found and put in its place. "There,
you can hold up your head with the best of them; he took care of that--my dear young Freiherr,
the boy that I nursed," and the old woman's burst of tears brought back the truth to Christina's
s reviving senses.

"Oh, tell me," she said, trying to raise herself, "was it indeed so? O say it was not as he said!"

"Ah, woe's me, woe's me, that it was even so," lamented Ursel; "but oh, be still, look not
so wild, dear lady.  The dear, true-hearted young lord, he spent his last breath in owning
you for his true lady, and in bidding us cherish you and our young baron that is to be.  And
the gracious lady below--she owns you; there is no fear of her now; so vex not yourself, dearest,
most gracious lady."

Christina did not break out into the wailing and weeping that the old nurse expected; she was
still far too much stunned and overwhelmed, and she entreated to be told all, lying still,
but gazing at Ursel with piteous bewildered eyes.  Ursel and Else helping one another out,
tried to tell her, but they were much confused; all they knew was that the party had been surprised
at night in a village hostel by the Schlangenwaldern, and all slain, though the young Baron
had lived long enough to charge the Schneiderlein with his commendation of his wife to his
mother; but all particulars had been lost in the general confusion.

"Oh, let me see the Schneiderlein," implored Christina, by this time able to rise and cross
the room to the large carved chair; and Ursel immediately turned to her underling, saying,
"Tell the Schneiderlein that the gracious Lady Baroness desires his presence."

Else's wooden shoes clattered down stairs, but the next moment she returned.  "He cannot come;
he is quite spent, and he will let no one touch his arm till Ursel can come, not even to get
off his doublet."

"I will go to him," said Christina, and, revived by the sense of being wanted, she moved at
once to the turret, where she kept some rag and some ointment, which she had found needful
in the latter stages of Ermentrude's illness--indeed, household surgery was a part of regular
female education, and Christina had had plenty of practice in helping her charitable aunt,
so that the superiority of her skill to that of Ursel had long been avowed in the castle. 
Ursel made no objection further than to look for something that could be at once converted
into a widow's veil--being in the midst of her grief quite alive to the need that no matronly
badge should be omitted--but nothing came to hand in time, and Christina was descending the
stairs, on her way to the kitchen, where she found the fugitive man- at-arms seated on a rough
settle, his head and wounded arm resting on the table, while groans of pain, weariness, and
impatience were interspersed with imprecations on the stupid awkward girls who surrounded him.

Pity and the instinct of affording relief must needs take the precedence even of the desire
to hear of her husband's fate; and, as the girls hastily whispered, "Here she is," and the
lanzknecht hastily tried to gather himself up, and rise with tokens of respect; she bade him
remain still, and let her see what she could do for him. In fact, she at once perceived that
he was in no condition to give a coherent account of anything, he was so completely worn out,
and in so much suffering.  She bade at once that some water should be heated, and some of the
broth of the dinner set on the fire; then with the shears at her girdle, and her soft, light
fingers, she removed the torn strip of cloth that had been wound round the arm, and cut away
the sleeve, showing the arm not broken, but gashed at the shoulder, and thence the whole length
grazed and wounded by the descent of the sword down to the wrist.  So tender was her touch,
that he scarcely winced or moaned under her hand; and, when she proceeded, with Ursel's help,
to bathe the wound with the warm water, the relief was such that the wearied man absolutely
slumbered during the process, which Christina protracted on that very account.  She then dressed
and bandaged the arm, and proceeded to skim--as no one else in the castle would do--the basin
of soup, with which she then fed her patient as he leant back in the corner of the settle,
at first in the same somnolent, half-conscious state in which he had been ever since the relief
from the severe pain; but after a few spoonfuls the light and life came back to his eye, and
he broke out, "Thanks, thanks, gracious lady!  This is the Lady Baroness for me! My young lord
was the only wise man!  Thanks, lady; now am I my own man again.  It had been long ere the
old Freiherrinn had done so much for me!  I am your man, lady, for life or death!"  And, before
she knew what he was about, the gigantic Schneiderlein had slid down on his knees, seized her
hand, and kissed it--the first act of homage to her rank, but most startling and distressing
to her.  "Nay," she faltered, "prithee do not; thou must rest.  Only if--if thou canst only
tell me if he, my own dear lord, sent me any greeting, I would wait to hear the rest till thou
hast slept."

"Ah! the dog of Schlangenwald!" was the first answer; then, as he continued, "You see, lady,
we had ridden merrily as far as Jacob Muller's hostel, the traitor," it became plain that he
meant to begin at the beginning.  She allowed Ursel to seat her on the bench opposite to his
settle, and, leaning forward, heard his narrative like one in a dream.  There, the Schneiderlein
proceeded to say, they put up for the night, entirely unsuspicious of evil; Jacob Muller, who
was known to himself, as well as to Sorel and to the others, assuring them that the way was
clear to Ratisbon, and that he heard the Emperor was most favourably disposed to any noble
who would tender his allegiance.  Jacob's liquors were brought out, and were still in course
of being enjoyed, when the house was suddenly surrounded by an overpowering number of the retainers
of Schlangenwald, with their Count himself at their head.  He had been evidently resolved to
prevent the timely submission of the enemies of his race, and suddenly presenting himself before
the elder Baron, had challenged him to instantaneous battle, claiming credit to himself for
not having surprised them when asleep.  The disadvantage had been scarcely less than if this
had been the case, for the Adlersteinern were all half-intoxicated, and far inferior in numbers--at
least, on the showing of the Schneiderlein--and a desperate fight had ended by his being flung
aside in a corner, bound fast by the ankles and wrists, the only living prisoner, except his
young lord, who, having several terrible wounds, the worst in his chest, was left unbound.

Both lay helpless, untended, and silent, while the revel that had been so fatal to them was
renewed by their captors, who finally all sunk into a heavy sleep.  The torches were not all
spent, and the moonlight shone into the room, when the Schneiderlein, desperate from the agony
caused by the ligature round his wounded arm, sat up and looked about him.  A knife thrown
aside by one of the drunkards lay near enough to be grasped by his bound hands, and he had
just reached it when Sir Eberhard made a sign to him to put it into his hand, and therewith
contrived to cut the rope round both hands and feet--then pointed to the door.

There was nothing to hinder an escape; the men slept the sleep of the drunken; but the Schneiderlein,
with the rough fidelity of a retainer, would have lingered with a hope of saving his master.
But Eberhard shook his head, and signed again to escape; then, making him bend down close to
him, he used all his remaining power to whisper, as he pressed his sword into the retainer's
hand, -

"Go home; tell my mother--all the world--that Christina Sorel is my wife, wedded on the Friedmund
Wake by Friar Peter of Offingen, and if she should bear a child, he is my true and lawful heir.
My sword for him--my love to her.  And if my mother would not be haunted by me, let her take
care of her."

These words were spoken with extreme difficulty, for the nature of the wound made utterance
nearly impossible, and each broken sentence cost a terrible effusion of blood.  The final words
brought on so choking and fatal a gush that, said the Schneiderlein, "he fell back as I tried
to hold him up, and I saw that it was all at an end, and a kind and friendly master and lord
gone from me.  I laid him down, and put his cross on his breast that I had seen him kissing
many a time that evening; and I crossed his hands, and wiped the blood from them and his face.
And, lady, he had put on his ring; I trust the robber caitiff's may have left it to him in
his grave.  And so I came forth, walking soft, and opening the door in no small dread, not
of the snoring swine, but of the dogs without.  But happily they were still, and even by the
door I saw all our poor fellows stark and stiff."

"My father?" asked Christina.

"Ay! with his head cleft open by the Graf himself.  He died like a true soldier, lady, and
we have lost the best head among us in him. Well, the knave that should have watched the horses
was as drunken as the rest of them, and I made a shift to put the bridle on the white mare
and ride off."

Such was the narrative of the Schneiderlein, and all that was left to Christina was the picture
of her husband's dying effort to guard her, and the haunting fancy of those long hours of speechless
agony on the floor of the hostel, and how direful must have been his fears for her.  Sad and
overcome, yet not sinking entirely while any work of comfort remained, her heart yearned over
her companion in misfortune, the mother who had lost both husband and son; and all her fears
of the dread Freiherrinn could not prevent her from bending her steps, trembling and palpitating
as she was, towards the hall, to try whether the daughter-in-law's right might be vouchsafed
to her, of weeping with the elder sufferer.

The Freiherrinn sat by the chimney, rocking herself to and fro, and holding consultation with
Hatto.  She started as she saw Christina approaching, and made a gesture of repulsion; but,
with the feeling of being past all terror in this desolate moment, Christina stepped nearer,
knelt, and, clasping her hands, said, "Your pardon, lady."

"Pardon!" returned the harsh voice, even harsher for very grief, "thou hast naught to fear,
girl.  As things stand, thou canst not have thy deserts.  Dost hear?"

"Ah, lady, it was not such pardon that I meant.  If you would let me be a daughter to you."

"A daughter!  A wood-carver's girl to be a daughter of Adlerstein!" half laughed the grim Baroness.
"Come here, wench," and Christina underwent a series of sharp searching questions on the evidences
of her marriage.

"So," ended the old lady, "since better may not be, we must own thee for the nonce.  Hark ye
all, this is the Frau Freiherrinn, Freiherr Eberhard's widow, to be honoured as such," she
added, raising her voice.  "There, girl, thou hast what thou didst strive for.  Is not that
enough?"

"Alas! lady," said Christina, her eyes swimming in tears, "I would fain have striven to be
a comforter, or to weep together."

"What! to bewitch me as thou didst my poor son and daughter, and well-nigh my lord himself!
Girl!  Girl!  Thou know'st I cannot burn thee now; but away with thee; try not my patience
too far."

And, more desolate than ever, the crushed and broken-hearted Christina, a widow before she
had been owned a wife, returned to the room that was now so full of memories as to be even
more home than Master Gottfried's gallery at Ulm.

CHAPTER VIII:  PASSING THE OUBLIETTE

Who can describe the dreariness of being snowed-up all the winter with such a mother-in-law
as Freiherrinn Kunigunde?

Yet it was well that the snow came early, for it was the best defence of the lonely castle
from any attack on the part of the Schlangenwaldern, the Swabian League, or the next heir,
Freiherr Kasimir von Adlerstein Wildschloss.  The elder Baroness had, at least, the merit of
a stout heart, and, even with her sadly-reduced garrison, feared none of them.  She had been
brought up in the faith that Adlerstein was impregnable, and so she still believed; and, if
the disaster that had cut off her husband and son was to happen at all, she was glad that it
had befallen before the homage had been paid.  Probably the Schlangenwald Count knew how tough
a morsel the castle was like to prove, and Wildschloss was serving at a distance, for nothing
was heard of either during the short interval while the roads were still open.  During this
time an attempt had been made through Father Norbert to ascertain what had become of the corpses
of the two Barons and their followers, and it had appeared that the Count had carried them
all off from the inn, no doubt to adorn his castle with their limbs, or to present them to
the Emperor in evidence of his zeal for order.  The old Baron could not indeed have been buried
in consecrated ground, nor have masses said for him; but for the weal of her son's soul Dame
Kunigunde gave some of her few ornaments, and Christina added her gold earrings, and all her
scanty purse, that both her husband and father might be joined in the prayers of the Church--trying
with all her might to put confidence in Hugh Sorel's Loretto relic, and the Indulgence he had
bought, and trusting with more consolatory thoughts to the ever stronger dawnings of good she
had watched in her own Eberhard.

She had some consoling intercourse with the priest while all this was pending; but throughout
the winter she was entirely cut off from every creature save the inmates of the castle, where,
as far as the old lady was concerned, she only existed on sufferance, and all her meekness
and gentleness could not win for her more than the barest toleration.

That Eberhard had for a few hours survived his father, and that thus the Freiherrinn Christina
was as much the Dowager Baroness as Kunigunde herself, was often insisted on in the kitchen
by Ursel, Hatto, and the Schneiderlein, whom Christina had unconsciously rendered her most
devoted servant, not only by her daily care of his wound, but by her kind courteous words,
and by her giving him his proper name of Heinz, dropping the absurd nom de guerre of the Schneiderlein,
or little tailor, which had been originally conferred on him in allusion to the valiant Tailorling
who boasted of having killed seven flies at a blow, and had been carried on chiefly because
of the contradiction between such a title and his huge brawny strength and fierce courage.
Poor Eberhard, with his undaunted bravery and free reckless good-nature, a ruffian far more
by education than by nature, had been much loved by his followers.  His widow would have reaped
the benefit of that affection even if her exceeding sweetness had not gained it on her own
account; and this giant was completely gained over to her, when, amid all her sorrow and feebleness,
she never failed to minister to his sufferings to the utmost, while her questions about his
original home, and revival of the name of his childhood, softened him, and awoke in him better
feelings.  He would have died to serve her, and she might have headed an opposition party in
the castle, had she not been quite indifferent to all save her grief; and, except by sitting
above the salt at the empty table, she laid no claim to any honours or authority, and was more
seldom than ever seen beyond what was now called her own room.

At last, when for the second time she was seeing the snow wreaths dwindle, and the drops shine
forth in moisture again, while the mountain paths were set free by the might of the springtide
sun, she spoke almost for the first time with authority, as she desired Heinz to saddle her
mule, and escort her to join in the Easter mass at the Blessed Friedmund's Chapel.  Ursel heaped
up objections; but so urgent was Christina for confession and for mass, that the old woman
had not the heart to stop her by a warning to the elder Baroness, and took the alternative
of accompanying her.  It was a glorious sparkling Easter Day, lovely blue sky above, herbage
and flowers glistening below, snow dazzling in the hollows, peasants assembling in holiday
garb, and all rejoicing.  Even the lonely widow, in her heavy veil and black mufflings, took
hope back to her heart, and smiled when at the church door a little child came timidly up to
her with a madder-tinted Easter egg--a gift once again like the happy home customs of Ulm.
She gave the child a kiss--she had nothing else to give, but the sweet face sent it away strangely
glad.

The festival mass in all its exultation was not fully over, when anxious faces began to be
seen at the door, and whisperings went round and many passed out.  Nobody at Adlerstein was
particular about silence in church, and, when the service was not in progress, voices were
not even lowered, and, after many attempts on the part of the Schneiderlein to attract the
attention of his mistress, his voice immediately succeeded the Ite missa est, "Gracious lady,
we must begone.  Your mule is ready.  There is a party at the Debateable Ford, whether Schlangenwald
or Wildschloss we know not yet, but either way you must be the first thing placed in safety."

Christina turned deadly pale.  She had long been ready to welcome death as a peaceful friend;
but, sheltered as her girlhood had been in the quiet city, she had never been brought in contact
with warfare, and her nervous, timid temperament made the thought most appalling and frightful
to her, certain as she was that the old Baroness would resist to the uttermost.  Father Norbert
saw her extreme terror, and, with the thought that he might comfort and support her, perhaps
mediate between the contending parties, plead that it was holy-tide, and proclaim the peace
of the church, or at the worst protect the lady herself, he offered his company; but, though
she thanked him, it was as if she scarcely understood his kindness, and a shudder passed over
her whenever the serfs, hastily summoned to augment the garrison, came hurrying down the path,
or turned aside into the more rugged and shorter descents.  It was strange, the good father
thought, that so timorous and fragile a being should have her lot cast amid these rugged places
and scenes of violence, with no one to give her the care and cherishing she so much required.

Even when she crept up the castle stairs, she was met with an angry rebuke, not so much for
the peril she had incurred as for having taken away the Schneiderlein, by far the most availing
among the scanty remnant of the retainers of Adlerstein.  Attempting no answer, and not even
daring to ask from what quarter came the alarm, Christina made her way out of the turmoil to
that chamber of her own, the scene of so much fear and sorrow, and yet of some share of peace
and happiness.  But from the window, near the fast subsiding waters of the Debateable Ford,
could plainly be seen the small troop of warriors, of whom Jobst the Kohler had brought immediate
intelligence.  The sun glistened on their armour, and a banner floated gaily on the wind; but
they were a fearful sight to the inmates of the lonely castle.

A stout heart was however Kunigunde's best endowment; and, with the steadiness and precision
of a general, her commands rang out, as she arranged and armed her garrison, perfectly resolved
against any submission, and confident in the strength of her castle; nay, not without a hope
of revenge either against Schlangenwald or Wildschloss, whom, as a degenerate Adlerstein, she
hated only less than the slayer of her husband and son.

The afternoon of Easter Day however passed away without any movement on the part of the enemy,
and it was not till the following day that they could be seen struggling through the ford,
and preparing to ascend the mountain.  Attacks had sometimes been disconcerted by posting men
in the most dangerous passes; but, in the lack of numbers, and of trustworthy commanders, the
Freiherrinn had judged it wiser to trust entirely to her walls, and keep her whole force within
them.

The new comers could hardly have had any hostile intentions, for, though well armed and accoutred,
their numbers did not exceed twenty- five.  The banner borne at their head was an azure one,
with a white eagle, and their leader could be observed looking with amazement at the top of
the watch-tower, where the same eagle had that morning been hoisted for the first time since
the fall of the two Freiherren.

So soon as the ascent had been made, the leader wound his horn, and, before the echoes had
died away among the hills, Hatto, acting as seneschal, was demanding his purpose.

"I am Kasimir von Adlerstein Wildschloss," was the reply.  "I have hitherto been hindered by
stress of weather from coming to take possession of my inheritance.  Admit me, that I may arrange
with the widowed Frau Freiherrinn as to her dower and residence."

"The widowed Frau Freiherrinn, born of Adlerstein," returned Hatto, "thanks the Freiherr von
Adlerstein Wildschloss; but she holds the castle as guardian to the present head of the family,
the Freiherr von Adlerstein."

"It is false, old man," exclaimed the Wildschloss; "the Freiherr had no other son."

"No," said Hatto, "but Freiherr Eberhard hath left us twin heirs, our young lords, for whom
we hold this castle."

"This trifling will not serve!" sternly spoke the knight.  "Eberhard von Adlerstein died unmarried."

"Not so," returned Hatto, "our gracious Frau Freiherrinn, the younger, was wedded to him at
the last Friedmund Wake, by the special blessing of our good patron, who would not see our
house extinct."

"I must see thy lady, old man," said Sir Kasimir, impatiently, not in the least crediting the
story, and believing his cousin Kunigunde quite capable of any measure that could preserve
to her the rule in Schloss Adlerstein, even to erecting some passing love affair of her son's
into a marriage.  And he hardly did her injustice, for she had never made any inquiry beyond
the castle into the validity of Christina's espousals, nor sought after the friar who had performed
the ceremony.  She consented to an interview with the claimant of the inheritance, and descended
to the gateway for the purpose.  The court was at its cleanest, the thawing snow having newly
washed away its impurities, and her proud figure, under her black hood and veil, made an imposing
appearance as she stood tall and defiant in the archway.

Sir Kasimir was a handsome man of about thirty, of partly Polish descent, and endowed with
Slavonic grace and courtesy, and he had likewise been employed in negotiations with Burgundy,
and had acquired much polish and knowledge of the world.

"Lady," he said, "I regret to disturb and intrude on a mourning family, but I am much amazed
at the tidings I have heard; and I must pray of you to confirm them."

"I thought they would confound you," composedly replied Kunigunde.

"And pardon me, lady, but the Diet is very nice in requiring full proofs.  I would be glad
to learn what lady was chosen by my deceased cousin Eberhard."

"The lady is Christina, daughter of his esquire, Hugh Sorel, of an honourable family at Ulm."

"Ha!  I know who and what Sorel was!" exclaimed Wildschloss.  "Lady cousin, thou wouldst not
stain the shield of Adlerstein with owning aught that cannot bear the examination of the Diet!"

"Sir Kasimir," said Kunigunde proudly, "had I known the truth ere my son's death, I had strangled
the girl with mine own hands!  But I learnt it only by his dying confession; and, had she been
a beggar's child, she was his wedded wife, and her babes are his lawful heirs."

"Knowest thou time--place--witnesses?" inquired Sir Kasimir.

"The time, the Friedmund Wake; the place, the Friedmund Chapel," replied the Baroness.  "Come
hither, Schneiderlein.  Tell the knight thy young lord's confession."

He bore emphatic testimony to poor Eberhard's last words; but as to the point of who had performed
the ceremony, he knew not,--his mind had not retained the name.

"I must see the Frau herself," said Wildschloss, feeling certain that such a being as he expected
in a daughter of the dissolute lanzknecht Sorel would soon, by dexterous questioning, be made
to expose the futility of her pretensions so flagrantly that even Kunigunde could not attempt
to maintain them.

For one moment Kunigunde hesitated, but suddenly a look of malignant satisfaction crossed her
face.  She spoke a few words to Squinting Matz, and then replied that Sir Kasimir should be
allowed to satisfy himself, but that she could admit no one else into the castle; hers was
a widow's household, the twins were only a few hours old, and she could not open her gates
to admit any person besides himself.

So resolved on judging for himself was Adlerstein Wildschloss that all this did not stagger
him; for, even if he had believed more than he did of the old lady's story, there would have
been no sense of intrusion or impropriety in such a visit to the mother.  Indeed, had Christina
been living in the civilized world, her chamber would have been hung with black cloth, black
velvet would have enveloped her up to the eyes, and the blackest of cradles would have stood
ready for her fatherless babe; two steps, in honour of her baronial rank, would have led to
her bed, and a beaufet with the due baronial amount of gold and silver plate would have held
the comfits and caudle to be dispensed to all visitors.  As it was, the two steps built into
the floor of the room, and the black hood that Ursel tied over her young mistress's head, were
the only traces that such etiquette had ever been heard of.

But when Baron Kasimir had clanked up the turret stairs, each step bringing to her many a memory
of him who should have been there, and when he had been led to the bedside, he was completely
taken by surprise.

Instead of the great, flat-faced, coarse comeliness of a German wench, treated as a lady in
order to deceive him, he saw a delicate, lily-like face, white as ivory, and the soft, sweet
brown eyes under their drooping lashes, so full of innocence and sad though thankful content,
that he felt as if the inquiries he came to make were almost sacrilege.

He had seen enough of the world to know that no agent in a clumsy imposition would look like
this pure white creature, with her arm encircling the two little swaddled babes, whose red
faces and bald heads alone were allowed to appear above their mummy-like wrappings; and he
could only make an obeisance lower and infinitely more respectful than that with which he had
favoured the Baroness nee von Adlerstein, with a few words of inquiry and apology.

But Christina had her sons' rights to defend now, and she had far more spirit to do so than
ever she had had in securing her own position, and a delicate rose tint came into her cheek
as she said in her soft voice, "The Baroness tells me, that you, noble sir, would learn who
wedded me to my dear and blessed lord, Sir Eberhard.  It was Friar Peter of the Franciscan
brotherhood of Offingen, an agent for selling indulgences.  Two of his lay brethren were present.
My dear lord gave his own name and mine in full after the holy rite; the friar promising his
testimony if it were needed.  He is to be found, or at least heard of, at his own cloister;
and the hermit at the chapel likewise beheld a part of the ceremony."

"Enough, enough, lady," replied Sir Kasimir; "forgive me for having forced the question upon you."

"Nay," replied Christina, with her blush deepening, "it is but just and due to us all;" and
her soft eyes had a gleam of exultation, as she looked at the two little mummies that made
up the US--"I would have all inquiries made in full."

"They shall be made, lady, as will be needful for the establishment of your son's right as
a free Baron of the empire, but not with any doubt on my part, or desire to controvert that
right.  I am fully convinced, and only wish to serve you and my little cousins.  Which of them
is the head of our family?" he added, looking at the two absolutely undistinguishable little
chrysalises, so exactly alike that Christina herself was obliged to look for the black ribbon,
on which a medal had been hung, round the neck of the elder.  Sir Kasimir put one knee to the
ground as he kissed the red cheek of the infant and the white hand of the mother.

"Lady cousin," he said to Kunigunde, who had stood by all this time with an anxious, uneasy,
scowling expression on her face, "I am satisfied.  I own this babe as the true Freiherr von
Adlerstein, and far be it from me to trouble his heritage.  Rather point out the way in which
I may serve you and him.  Shall I represent all to the Emperor, and obtain his wardship, so
as to be able to protect you from any attacks by the enemies of the house?"

"Thanks, sir," returned the elder lady, severely, seeing Christina's gratified, imploring face.
"The right line of Adlerstein can take care of itself without greedy guardians appointed by
usurpers.  Our submission has never been made, and the Emperor cannot dispose of our wardship."

And Kunigunde looked defiant, regarding herself and her grandson as quite as good as the Emperor,
and ready to blast her daughter-in-law with her eyes for murmuring gratefully and wistfully,
"Thanks, noble sir, thanks!"

"Let me at least win a friendly right in my young cousins," said Sir Kasimir, the more drawn
by pitying admiration towards their mother, as he perceived more of the grandmother's haughty
repulsiveness and want of comprehension of the dangers of her position.  "They are not baptized?
Let me become their godfather."

Christina's face was all joy and gratitude, and even the grandmother made no objection; in
fact, it was the babes' only chance of a noble sponsor; and Father Norbert, who had already
been making ready for the baptism, was sent for from the hall.  Kunigunde, meantime, moved
about restlessly, went half-way down the stairs, and held council with some one there; Ursel
likewise, bustled about, and Sir Kasimir remained seated on the chair that had been placed
for him near Christina's bed.

She was able again to thank him, and add, "It may be that you will have more cause than the
lady grandmother thinks to remember your offer of protection to my poor orphans.  Their father
and grandfather were, in very deed, on their way to make submission."

"That is well known to me," said Sir Kasimir.  "Lady, I will do all in my power for you.  The
Emperor shall hear the state of things; and, while no violence is offered to travellers," he
added, lowering his tone, "I doubt not he will wait for full submission till this young Baron
be of age to tender it."

"We are scarce in force to offer violence," said Christina sighing. "I have no power to withstand
the Lady Baroness.  I am like a stranger here; but, oh! sir, if the Emperor and Diet will be
patient and forbearing with this desolate house, my babes, if they live, shall strive to requite
their mercy by loyalty.  And the blessing of the widow and fatherless will fall on you, most
generous knight," she added, fervently, holding out her hand.

"I would I could do more for you," said the knight.  "Ask, and all I can do is at your service."

"Ah, sir," cried Christina, her eyes brightening, "there is one most inestimable service you
could render me--to let my uncle, Master Gottfried, the wood-carver of Ulm, know where I am,
and of my state, and of my children."

Sir Kasimir repeated the name.

"Yes," she said.  "There was my home, there was I brought up by my dear uncle and aunt, till
my father bore me away to attend on the young lady here.  It is eighteen months since they
had any tidings from her who was as a daughter to them."

"I will see them myself," said Kasimir; "I know the name.  Carved not Master Gottfried the
stall-work at Augsburg?"

"Yes, indeed!  In chestnut leaves!  And the Misereres all with fairy tales!" exclaimed Christina.
"Oh, sir, thanks indeed!  Bear to the dear, dear uncle and aunt their child's duteous greetings,
and tell them she loves them with all her heart, and prays them to forgive her, and to pray
for her and her little ones!  And," she added, "my uncle may not have learnt how his brother,
my father, died by his lord's side.  Oh! pray him, if ever he loved his little Christina, to
have masses sung for my father and my own dear lord."

As she promised, Ursel came to make the babes ready for their baptism, and Sir Kasimir moved
away towards the window.  Ursel was looking uneasy and dismayed, and, as she bent over her
mistress, she whispered, "Lady, the Schneiderlein sends you word that Matz has called him to
help in removing the props of the door you wot of when HE yonder steps across it.  He would
know if it be your will?"

"The oubliette!"  This was Frau Kunigunde's usage of the relative who was doing his best for
the welfare of her grandsons!  Christina's whole countenance looked so frozen with horror,
that Ursel felt as if she had killed her on the spot; but the next moment a flash of relief
came over the pale features, and the trembling lip commanded itself to say, "My best thanks
to good Heinz.  Say to him that I forbid it. If he loves the life of his master's children,
he will abstain!  Tell him so.  My blessings on him if this knight leave the castle safe, Ursel."
And her terrified earnest eyes impelled Ursel to hasten to do her bidding; but whether it had
been executed, there was no knowing, for almost immediately the Freiherrinn and Father Norbert
entered, and Ursel returned with them.  Nay, the message given, who could tell if Heinz would
be able to act upon it?  In the ordinary condition of the castle, he was indeed its most efficient
inmate; Matz did not approach him in strength, Hans was a cripple, Hatto would be on the right
side; but Jobst the Kohler, and the other serfs who had been called in for the defence, were
more likely to hold with the elder than the younger lady.  And Frau Kunigunde herself, knowing
well that the five-and-twenty men outside would be incompetent to avenge their master, confident
in her narrow-minded, ignorant pride that no one could take Schloss Adlerstein, and incapable
of understanding the changes in society that were rendering her isolated condition untenable,
was certain to scout any representation of the dire consequences that the crime would entail.
Kasimir had no near kindred, and private revenge was the only justice the Baroness believed
in; she only saw in her crime the satisfaction of an old feud, and the union of the Wildschloss
property with the parent stem.

Seldom could such a christening have taken place as that of which Christina's bed-room was
the scene--the mother scarcely able even to think of the holy sacrament for the horror of knowing
that the one sponsor was already exulting in the speedy destruction of the other; and, poor
little feeble thing, rallying the last remnants of her severely-tried powers to prevent the
crime at the most terrible of risks.

The elder babe received from his grandmother the hereditary name of Eberhard, but Sir Kasimir
looked at the mother inquiringly, ere he gave the other to the priest.  Christina had well-nigh
said, "Oubliette," but, recalling herself in time, she feebly uttered the name she had longed
after from the moment she had known that two sons had been her Easter gift, "Gottfried," after
her beloved uncle.  But Kunigunde caught the sound, and exclaimed, "No son of Adlerstein shall
bear abase craftsman's name.  Call him Racher (the avenger);" and in the word there already
rang a note of victory and revenge that made Christina's blood run cold.  Sir Kasimir marked
her trouble. "The lady mother loves not the sound," he said, kindly.  "Lady, have you any other
wish?  Then will I call him Friedmund."

Christina had almost smiled.  To her the omen was of the best.  Baron Friedmund had been the
last common ancestor of the two branches of the family, the patron saint was so called, his
wake was her wedding- day, the sound of the word imported peace, and the good Barons Ebbo and
Friedel had ever been linked together lovingly by popular memory. And so the second little
Baron received the name of Friedmund, and then the knight of Wildschloss, perceiving, with
consideration rare in a warrior, that the mother looked worn out and feverish, at once prepared
to kiss her hand and take leave.

"One more favour, Sir Knight," she said, lifting up her head, while a burning spot rose on
either cheek.  "I beg of you to take my two babes down--yes, both, both, in your own arms,
and show them to your men, owning them as your kinsmen and godsons."

Sir Kasimir looked exceedingly amazed, as if he thought the lady's senses taking leave of her,
and Dame Kunigunde broke out into declarations that it was absurd, and she did not know what
she was talking of; but she repeated almost with passion, "Take them, take them, you know not
how much depends on it."  Ursel, with unusual readiness of wit, signed and whispered that the
young mother must be humoured, for fear of consequences; till the knight, in a good- natured,
confused way, submitted to receive the two little bundles in his arms, while he gave place
to Kunigunde, who hastily stepped before him in a manner that made Christina trust that her
precaution would be effectual.

The room was reeling round with her.  The agony of those few minutes was beyond all things
unspeakable.  What had seemed just before like a certain way of saving the guest without real
danger to her children, now appeared instead the most certain destruction to all, and herself
the unnatural mother who had doomed her new-born babes for a stranger's sake.  She could not
even pray; she would have shrieked to have them brought back, but her voice was dead within
her, her tongue clave to the roof of her mouth, ringings in her ears hindered her even from
listening to the descending steps.  She lay as one dead, when ten minutes afterwards the cry
of one of her babes struck on her ear, and the next moment Ursel stood beside her, laying them
down close to her, and saying exultingly, "Safe! safe out at the gate, and down the hillside,
and my old lady ready to gnaw off her hands for spite!"

CHAPTER IX:  THE EAGLETS

Christina's mental and bodily constitution had much similarity-- apparently most delicate,
tender, and timid, yet capable of a vigour, health, and endurance that withstood shocks that
might have been fatal to many apparently stronger persons.  The events of that frightful Easter
Monday morning did indeed almost kill her; but the effects, though severe, were not lasting;
and by the time the last of Ermentrude's snow-wreath had vanished, she was sunning her babes
at the window, happier than she had ever thought to be--above all, in the possession of both
the children.  A nurse had been captured for the little Baron from the village on the hillside;
but the woman had fretted, the child had pined, and had been given back to his mother to save
his life; and ever since both had thriven perfectly under her sole care, so that there was
very nearly joy in that room.

Outside it, there was more bitterness than ever.  The grandmother had softened for a few moments
at the birth of the children, with satisfaction at obtaining twice as much as she had hoped;
but the frustration of her vengeance upon Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss had renewed all
her hatred, and she had no scruple in abusing "the burgher-woman" to the whole household for
her artful desire to captivate another nobleman.  She, no doubt, expected that degenerate fool
of a Wildschlosser to come wooing after her; "if he did he should meet his deserts."  It was
the favourite reproach whenever she chose to vent her fury on the mute, blushing, weeping young
widow, whose glance at her babies was her only appeal against the cruel accusation.

On Midsummer eve, Heinz the Schneiderlein, who had all day been taking toll from the various
attendants at the Friedmund Wake, came up and knocked at the door.  He had a bundle over his
shoulder and a bag in his hand, which last he offered to her.

"The toll!  It is for the Lady Baroness."

"You are my Lady Baroness.  I levy toll for this my young lord."

"Take it to her, good Heinz, she must have the charge, and needless strife I will not breed."

The angry notes of Dame Kunigunde came up:  "How now, knave Schneiderlein!  Come down with
the toll instantly.  It shall not be tampered with!  Down, I say, thou thief of a tailor."

"Go; prithee go, vex her not," entreated Christina.

"Coming, lady!" shouted Heinz, and, disregarding all further objurgations from beneath, he
proceeded to deposit his bundle, and explain that it had been entrusted to him by a pedlar
from Ulm, who would likewise take charge of anything she might have to send in return, and
he then ran down just in time to prevent a domiciliary visit from the old lady.

From Ulm!  The very sound was joy; and Christina with trembling hands unfastened the cords
and stitches that secured the canvas covering, within which lay folds on folds of linen, and
in the midst a rich silver goblet, long ago brought by her father from Italy, a few of her
own possessions, and a letter from her uncle secured with black floss silk, with a black seal.

She kissed it with transport, but the contents were somewhat chilling by their grave formality.
The opening address to the "honour-worthy Lady Baroness and love-worthy niece," conveyed to
her a doubt on good Master Gottfried's part whether she were still truly worthy of love or
honour.  The slaughter at Jacob Muller's had been already known to him, and he expressed himself
as relieved, but greatly amazed, at the information he had received from the Baron of Adlerstein
Wildschloss, who had visited him at Ulm, after having verified what had been alleged at Schloss
Adlerstein by application to the friar at Offingen.

Freiherr von Adlerstein Wildschloss had further requested him to make known that, feud-briefs
having regularly passed between Schlangenwald and Adlerstein, and the two Barons not having
been within the peace of the empire, no justice could be exacted for their deaths; yet, in
consideration of the tender age of the present heirs, the question of forfeiture or submission
should be waived till they could act for themselves, and Schlangenwald should be withheld from
injuring them so long as no molestation was offered to travellers.  It was plain that Sir Kasimir
had well and generously done his best to protect the helpless twins, and he sent respectful
but cordial greetings to their mother.  These however were far less heeded by her than the
coldness of her uncle's letter.  She had drifted beyond the reckoning of her kindred, and they
were sending her her property and bridal linen, as if they had done with her, and had lost
their child in the robber- baron's wife.  Yet at the end there was a touch of old times in
offering a blessing, should she still value it, and the hopes that heaven and the saints would
comfort her; "for surely, thou poor child, thou must have suffered much, and, if thou wiliest
still to write to thy city kin, thine aunt would rejoice to hear that thou and thy babes were
in good health."

Precise grammarian and scribe as was Uncle Gottfried, the lapse from the formal Sie to the
familiar Du went to his niece's heart. Whenever her little ones left her any leisure, she spent
this her first wedding-day in writing so earnest and loving a letter as, in spite of mediaeval
formality, must assure the good burgomaster that, except in having suffered much and loved
much, his little Christina was not changed since she had left him.

No answer could be looked for till another wake-day; but, when it came, it was full and loving,
and therewith were sent a few more of her favourite books, a girdle, and a richly-scented pair
of gloves, together with two ivory boxes of comfits, and two little purple silk, gold-edged,
straight, narrow garments and tight round brimless lace caps, for the two little Barons.  Nor
did henceforth a wake-day pass by without bringing some such token, not only delightful as
gratifying Christina's affection by the kindness that suggested them, but supplying absolute
wants in the dire stress of poverty at Schloss Adlerstein.

Christina durst not tell her mother-in-law of the terms on which they were unmolested, trusting
to the scantiness of the retinue, and to her own influence with the Schneiderlein to hinder
any serious violence.  Indeed, while the Count of Schlangenwald was in the neighbourhood, his
followers took care to secure all that could be captured at the Debateable Ford, and the broken
forces of Adlerstein would have been insane had they attempted to contend with such superior
numbers.  That the castle remained unattacked was attributed by the elder Baroness to its own
merits; nor did Christina undeceive her.  They had no intercourse with the outer world, except
that once a pursuivant arrived with a formal intimation from their kinsman, the Baron of Adlerstein
Wildschloss, of his marriage with the noble Fraulein, Countess Valeska von Trautbach, and a
present of a gay dagger for each of his godsons.  Frau Kunigunde triumphed a good deal over
the notion of Christina's supposed disappointment; but the tidings were most welcome to the
younger lady, who trusted they would put an end to all future taunts about Wildschloss.  Alas!
the handle for abuse was too valuable to be relinquished.

The last silver cup the castle had possessed had to be given as a reward to the pursuivant,
and mayhap Frau Kunigunde reckoned this as another offence of her daughter-in-law, since, had
Sir Kasimir been safe in the oubliette, the twins might have shared his broad lands on the
Danube, instead of contributing to the fees of his pursuivant. The cup could indeed be ill
spared.  The cattle and swine, the dues of the serfs, and the yearly toll at the wake were
the sole resources of the household; and though there was no lack of meat, milk, and black
bread, sufficient garments could scarce be come by, with all the spinning of the household,
woven by the village webster, of whose time the baronial household, by prescriptive right,
owned the lion's share.

These matters little troubled the two beings in whom Christina's heart was wrapped up.  Though
running about barefooted and bareheaded, they were healthy, handsome, straight-limbed, noble-
looking creatures, so exactly alike, and so inseparable, that no one except herself could tell
one from the other save by the medal of Our Lady worn by the elder, and the little cross carved
by the mother for the younger; indeed, at one time, the urchins themselves would feel for cross
or medal, ere naming themselves "Ebbo," or "Friedel."  They were tall for their age, but with
the slender make of their foreign ancestry; and, though their fair rosy complexions were brightened
by mountain mists and winds, their rapidly darkening hair, and large liquid brown eyes, told
of their Italian blood.  Their grandmother looked on their colouring as a taint, and Christina
herself had hoped to see their father's simple, kindly blue eyes revive in his boys; but she
could hardly have desired anything different from the dancing, kindling, or earnest glances
that used to flash from under their long black lashes when they were nestling in her lap, or
playing by her knee, making music with their prattle, or listening to her answers with faces
alive with intelligence.  They scarcely left her time for sorrow or regret.

They were never quarrelsome.  Either from the influence of her gentleness, or from their absolute
union, they could do and enjoy nothing apart, and would as soon have thought of their right
and left hands falling out as of Ebbo and Friedel disputing.  Ebbo however was always the right
hand.  THE Freiherr, as he had been called from the first, had, from the time he could sit
at the table at all, been put into the baronial chair with the eagle carved at the back; every
member of the household, from his grandmother downwards, placed him foremost, and Friedel followed
their example, at the less loss to himself, as his hand was always in Ebbo's, and all their
doings were in common.  Sometimes however the mother doubted whether there would have been
this perfect absence of all contest had the medal of the firstborn chanced to hang round Friedmund's
neck instead of Eberhard's.  At first they were entirely left to her.  Their grandmother heeded
them little as long as they were healthy, and evidently regarded them more as heirs of Adlerstein
than as grandchildren; but, as they grew older, she showed anxiety lest their mother should
interfere with the fierce, lawless spirit proper to their line.

One winter day, when they were nearly six years old, Christina, spinning at her window, had
been watching them snowballing in the castle court, smiling and applauding every large handful
held up to her, every laughing combat, every well-aimed hit, as the hardy little fellows scattered
the snow in showers round them, raising their merry fur-capped faces to the bright eyes that
"rained influence and judged the prize."

By and by they stood still; Ebbo--she knew him by the tossed head and commanding air--was proposing
what Friedel seemed to disapprove; but, after a short discussion, Ebbo flung away from him,
and went towards a shed where was kept a wolf-cub, recently presented to the young Barons by
old Ulrich's son.  The whelp was so young as to be quite harmless, but it was far from amiable;
Friedel never willingly approached it, and the snarling and whining replies to all advances
had begun to weary and irritate Ebbo.  He dragged it out by its chain, and, tethering it to
a post, made it a mark for his snowballs, which, kneaded hard, and delivered with hearty good-will
by his sturdy arms, made the poor little beast yelp with pain and terror, till the more tender-hearted
Friedel threw himself on his brother to withhold him, while Matz stood by laughing and applauding
the Baron. Seeing Ebbo shake Friedel off with unusual petulance, and pitying the tormented
animal, Christina flung a cloak round her head and hastened down stairs, entering the court
just as the terrified whelp had made a snap at the boy, which was returned by angry, vindictive
pelting, not merely with snow, but with stones.  Friedel sprang to her crying, and her call
to Ebbo made him turn, though with fury in his face, shouting, "He would bite me! the evil beast!"

"Come with me, Ebbo," she said.

"He shall suffer for it, the spiteful, ungrateful brute!  Let me alone, mother!" cried Ebbo,
stamping on the snow, but still from habit yielding to her hand on his shoulder.

"What now?" demanded the old Baroness, appearing on the scene.  "Who is thwarting the Baron?"

"She; she will not let me deal with yonder savage whelp," cried the boy.

"She!  Take thy way, child," said the old lady.  "Visit him well for his malice.  None shall
withstand thee here.  At thy peril!" she added, turning on Christina.  "What, art not content
to have brought base mechanical blood into a noble house?  Wouldst make slaves and cowards
of its sons?"

"I would teach them true courage, not cruelty," she tried to say.

"What should such as thou know of courage?  Look here, girl:  another word to daunt the spirit
of my grandsons, and I'll have thee scourged down the mountain-side!  On!  At him, Ebbo!  That's
my gallant young knight!  Out of the way, girl, with thy whining looks!  What, Friedel, be
a man, and aid thy brother!  Has she made thee a puling woman already?"  And Kunigunde laid
an ungentle grasp upon Friedmund, who was clinging to his mother, hiding his face in her gown.
He struggled against the clutch, and would not look up or be detached.

"Fie, poor little coward!" taunted the old lady; "never heed him, Ebbo, my brave Baron!"

Cut to the heart, Christina took refuge in her room, and gathered her Friedel to her bosom,
as he sobbed out, "Oh, mother, the poor little wolf!  Oh, mother, are you weeping too?  The
grandmother should not so speak to the sweetest, dearest motherling," he added, throwing his
arms round her neck.

"Alas, Friedel, that Ebbo should learn that it is brave to hurt the weak!"

"It is not like Walther of Vogelwiede," said Friedel, whose mind had been much impressed by
the Minnesinger's bequest to the birds.

"Nor like any true Christian knight.  Alas, my poor boys, must you be taught foul cruelty and
I too weak and cowardly to save you?"

"That never will be," said Friedel, lifting his head from her shoulder.  "Hark! what a howl
was that!"

"Listen not, dear child; it does but pain thee."

"But Ebbo is not shouting.  Oh, mother, he is vexed--he is hurt!" cried Friedel, springing
from her lap; but, ere either could reach the window, Ebbo had vanished from the scene.  They
only saw the young wolf stretched dead on the snow, and the same moment in burst Ebbo, and
flung himself on the floor in a passion of weeping. Stimulated by the applause of his grandmother
and of Matz, he had furiously pelted the poor animal with all missiles that came to hand, till
a blow, either from him or Matz, had produced such a howl and struggle of agony, and then such
terrible stillness, as had gone to the young Baron's very heart, a heart as soft as that of
his father had been by nature.  Indeed, his sobs were so piteous that his mother was relieved
to hear only, "The wolf! the poor wolf!" and to find that he himself was unhurt; and she was
scarcely satisfied of this when Dame Kunigunde came up also alarmed, and thus turned his grief
to wrath.  "As if I would cry in that way for a bite!" he said.  "Go, grandame; you made me
do it, the poor beast!" with a fresh sob.

"Ulrich shall get thee another cub, my child."

"No, no; I never will have another cub!  Why did you let me kill it?"

"For shame, Ebbo!  Weep for a spiteful brute!  That's no better than thy mother or Friedel."

"I love my mother!  I love Friedel!  They would have withheld me. Go, go; I hate you!"

"Peace, peace, Ebbo," exclaimed his mother; "you know not what you say.  Ask your grandmother's
pardon."

"Peace, thou fool!" screamed the old lady.  "The Baron speaks as he will in his own castle.
He is not to be checked here, and thwarted there, and taught to mince his words like a cap-in-hand
pedlar. Pardon!  When did an Adlerstein seek pardon?  Come with me, my Baron; I have still
some honey-cakes."

"Not I," replied Ebbo; "honey-cakes will not cure the wolf whelp. Go:  I want my mother and
Friedel."

Alone with them his pride and passion were gone; but alas! what augury for the future of her
boys was left with the mother!

CHAPTER X:  THE EAGLE'S PREY

"It fell about the Lammas tide, When moor men win their hay,"

that all the serfs of Adlerstein were collected to collect their lady's hay to be stored for
the winter's fodder of the goats, and of poor Sir Eberhard's old white mare, the only steed
as yet ridden by the young Barons.

The boys were fourteen years old.  So monotonous was their mother's life that it was chiefly
their growth that marked the length of her residence in the castle.  Otherwise there had been
no change, except that the elder Baroness was more feeble in her limbs, and still more irritable
and excitable in temper.  There were no events, save a few hunting adventures of the boys,
or the yearly correspondence with Ulm; and the same life continued, of shrinking in dread from
the old lady's tyrannous dislike, and of the constant endeavour to infuse better principles
into the boys, without the open opposition for which there was neither power nor strength.

The boys' love was entirely given to their mother.  Far from diminishing with their dependence
on her, it increased with the sense of protection; and, now that they were taller than herself,
she seemed to be cherished by them more than ever.  Moreover, she was their oracle.  Quick-witted
and active-minded, loving books the more because their grandmother thought signing a feud-letter
the utmost literary effort becoming to a noble, they never rested till they had acquired all
that their mother could teach them; or, rather, they then became more restless than ever. 
Long ago had her whole store of tales and ballads become so familiar, by repetition, that the
boys could correct her in the smallest variation; reading and writing were mastered as for
pleasure; and the Nuremberg Chronicle, with its wonderful woodcuts, excited such a passion
of curiosity that they must needs conquer its Latin and read it for themselves.  This World
History, with Alexander and the Nine Worthies, the cities and landscapes, and the oft-repeated
portraits, was Eberhard's study; but Friedmund continued--constant to Walther of Vogelweide.
Eberhard cared for no character in the Vulgate so much as for Judas the Maccabee; but Friedmund's
heart was all for King David; and to both lads, shut up from companionship as they were, every
acquaintance in their books was a living being whose like they fancied might be met beyond
their mountain.  And, when they should go forth, like Dietrich of Berne, in search of adventures,
doughty deeds were chiefly to fall to the lot of Ebbo's lance; while Friedel was to be their
Minnesinger; and indeed certain verses, that he had murmured in his brother's ear, had left
no doubt in Ebbo's mind that the exploits would be worthily sung.

The soft dreamy eye was becoming Friedel's characteristic, as fire and keenness distinguished
his brother's glance.  When at rest, the twins could be known apart by their expression, though
in all other respects they were as alike as ever; and let Ebbo look thoughtful or Friedel eager
and they were again undistinguishable; and indeed they were constantly changing looks.  Had
not Friedel been beside him, Ebbo would have been deemed a wondrous student for his years;
had not Ebbo been the standard of comparison, Friedel would have been in high repute for spirit
and enterprise and skill as a cragsman, with the crossbow, and in all feats of arms that the
Schneiderlein could impart.  They shared all occupations; and it was by the merest shade that
Ebbo excelled with the weapon, and Friedel with the book or tool.  For the artist nature was
in them, not intentionally excited by their mother, but far too strong to be easily discouraged.
They had long daily gazed at Ulm in the distance, hoping to behold the spire completed; and
the illustrations in their mother's books excited a strong desire to imitate them.  The floor
had often been covered with charcoal outlines even before Christina was persuaded to impart
the rules she had learnt from her uncle; and her carving-tools were soon seized upon.  At first
they were used only upon knobs of sticks; but one day when the boys, roaming on the mountain,
had lost their way, and coming to the convent had been there hospitably welcomed by Father
Norbert, they came home wild to make carvings like what they had seen in the chapel.  Jobst
the Kohler was continually importuned for soft wood; the fair was ransacked for knives; and
even the old Baroness could not find great fault with the occupation, base and mechanical though
it were, which disposed of the two restless spirits during the many hours when winter storms
confined them to the castle.  Rude as was their work, the constant observation and choice of
subjects were an unsuspected training and softening.  It was not in vain that they lived in
the glorious mountain fastness, and saw the sun descend in his majesty, dyeing the masses of
rock with purple and crimson; not in vain that they beheld peak and ravine clothed in purest
snow, flushed with rosy light at morn and eve, or contrasted with the purple blue of the sky;
or that they stood marvelling at ice caverns with gigantic crystal pendants shining with the
most magical pure depths of sapphire and emerald, "as if," said Friedel, "winter kept in his
service all the jewel-forging dwarfs of the motherling's tales." And, when the snow melted
and the buds returned, the ivy spray, the smiling saxifrage, the purple gentian bell, the feathery
rowan leaf, the symmetrical lady's mantle, were hailed and loved first as models, then for
themselves.

One regret their mother had, almost amounting to shame.  Every virtuous person believed in
the efficacy of the rod, and, maugre her own docility, she had been chastised with it almost
as a religious duty; but her sons had never felt the weight of a blow, except once when their
grandmother caught them carving a border of eagles and doves round the hall table, and then
Ebbo had returned the blow with all his might.  As to herself, if she ever worked herself up
to attempt chastisement, the Baroness was sure to fall upon her for insulting the noble birth
of her sons, and thus gave them a triumph far worse for them than impunity.  In truth, the
boys had their own way, or rather the Baron had his way, and his way was Baron Friedmund's.
Poor, bare, and scanty as were all the surroundings of their life, everything was done to feed
their arrogance, with only one influence to counteract their education in pride and violence--a
mother's influence, indeed, but her authority was studiously taken from her, and her position
set at naught, with no power save what she might derive from their love and involuntary honour,
and the sight of the pain caused her by their wrong-doings.

And so the summer's hay-harvest was come.  Peasants clambered into the green nooks between
the rocks to cut down with hook or knife the flowery grass, for there was no space for the
sweep of a scythe.  The best crop was on the bank of the Braunwasser, by the Debateable Ford,
but this was cut and carried on the backs of the serfs, much earlier than the mountain grass,
and never without much vigilance against the Schlangenwaldern; but this year the Count was
absent at his Styrian castle, and little had been seen or heard of his people.

The full muster of serfs appeared, for Frau Kunigunde admitted of no excuses, and the sole
absentee was a widow who lived on the ledge of the mountain next above that on which the castle
stood.  Her son reported her to be very ill, and with tears in his eyes entreated Baron Friedel
to obtain leave for him to return to her, since she was quite alone in her solitary hut, with
no one even to give her a drink of water.  Friedel rushed with the entreaty to his grandmother,
but she laughed it to scorn.  Lazy Koppel only wanted an excuse, or, if not, the woman was
old and useless, and men could not be spared.

"Ah! good grandame," said Friedel, "his father died with ours."

"The more honour for him!  The more he is bound to work for us.  Off, junker, make no loiterers."

Grieved and discomfited, Friedel betook himself to his mother and brother.

"Foolish lad not to have come to me!" said the young Baron.  "Where is he?  I'll send him at once."

But Christina interposed an offer to go and take Koppel's place beside his mother, and her
skill was so much prized over all the mountain-side, that the alternative was gratefully accepted,
and she was escorted up the steep path by her two boys to the hovel, where she spent the day
in attendance on the sick woman.

Evening came on, the patient was better, but Koppel did not return, nor did the young Barons
come to fetch their mother home.  The last sunbeams were dying off the mountain-tops, and,
beginning to suspect something amiss, she at length set off, and half way down met Koppel,
who replied to her question, "Ah, then, the gracious lady has not heard of our luck.  Excellent
booty, and two prisoners!  The young Baron has been a hero indeed, and has won himself a knightly
steed." And, on her further interrogation, he added, that an unusually rich but small company
had been reported by Jobst the Kohler to be on the way to the ford, where he had skilfully
prepared a stumbling-block. The gracious Baroness had caused Hatto to jodel all the hay-makers
together, and they had fallen on the travellers by the straight path down the crag.  "Ach!
did not the young Baron spring like a young gemsbock?  And in midstream down came their pack-horses
and their wares!  Some of them took to flight, but, pfui, there were enough for my young lord
to show his mettle upon.  Such a prize the saints have not sent since the old Baron's time."

Christina pursued her walk in dismay at this new beginning of freebooting in its worst form,
overthrowing all her hopes.  The best thing that could happen would be the immediate interference
of the Swabian League, while her sons were too young to be personally held guilty.  Yet this
might involve ruin and confiscation; and, apart from all consequences, she bitterly grieved
that the stain of robbery should have fallen on her hitherto innocent sons.

Every peasant she met greeted her with praises of their young lord, and, when she mounted the
hall-steps, she found the floor strewn with bales of goods.

"Mother," cried Ebbo, flying up to her, "have you heard?  I have a horse! a spirited bay, a
knightly charger, and Friedel is to ride him by turns with me.  Where is Friedel?  And, mother,
Heinz said I struck as good a stroke as any of them, and I have a sword for Friedel now.  Why
does he not come?  And, motherling, this is for you, a gown of velvet, a real black velvet,
that will make you fairer than our Lady at the Convent.  Come to the window and see it, mother
dear."

The boy was so joyously excited that she could hardly withstand his delight, but she did not move.

"Don't you like the velvet?" he continued.  "We always said that, the first prize we won, the
motherling should wear velvet.  Do but look at it."

"Woe is me, my Ebbo!" she sighed, bending to kiss his brow.

He understood her at once, coloured, and spoke hastily and in defiance.  "It was in the river,
mother, the horses fell; it is our right."

"Fairly, Ebbo?" she asked in a low voice.

"Nay, mother, if Jobst DID hide a branch in midstream, it was no doing of mine; and the horses
fell.  The Schlangenwaldern don't even wait to let them fall.  We cannot live, if we are to
be so nice and dainty."

"Ah! my son, I thought not to hear you call mercy and honesty mere niceness."

"What do I hear?" exclaimed Frau Kunigunde, entering from the storeroom, where she had been
disposing of some spices, a much esteemed commodity.  "Are you chiding and daunting this boy,
as you have done with the other?"

"My mother may speak to me!" cried Ebbo, hotly, turning round.

"And quench thy spirit with whining fooleries!  Take the Baron's bounty, woman, and vex him
not after his first knightly exploit."

"Heaven knows, and Ebbo knows," said the trembling Christina, "that, were it a knightly exploit,
I were the first to exult."

"Thou! thou craftsman's girl! dost presume to call in question the knightly deeds of a noble
house!  There!" cried the furious Baroness, striking her face.  Now! dare to be insolent again."
Her hand was uplifted for another blow, when it was grasped by Eberhard, and, the next moment,
he likewise held the other hand, with youthful strength far exceeding hers.  She had often
struck his mother before, but not in his presence, and the greatness of the shock seemed to
make him cool and absolutely dignified.

"Be still, grandame," he said.  "No, mother, I am not hurting her," and indeed the surprise
seemed to have taken away her rage and volubility, and unresistingly she allowed him to seat
her in a chair. Still holding her arm, he made his clear boyish voice resound through the hall,
saying, "Retainers all, know that, as I am your lord and master, so is my honoured mother lady
of the castle, and she is never to be gainsay'ed, let her say or do what she will."

"You are right, Herr Freiherr," said Heinz.  "The Frau Christina is our gracious and beloved
dame.  Long live the Freiherrinn Christina!" And the voices of almost all the serfs present
mingled in the cry.

"And hear you all," continued Eberhard, "she shall rule all, and never be trampled on more.
Grandame, you understand?"

The old woman seemed confounded, and cowered in her chair without speaking.  Christina, almost
dismayed by this silence, would have suggested to Ebbo to say something kind or consoling;
but at that moment she was struck with alarm by his renewed inquiry for his brother.

"Friedel!  Was not he with thee?"

"No; I never saw him!"

Ebbo flew up the stairs, and shouted for his brother; then, coming down, gave orders for the
men to go out on the mountain-side, and search and jodel.  He was hurrying with them, but his
mother caught his arm.  "O Ebbo, how can I let you go?  It is dark, and the crags are so perilous!"

"Mother, I cannot stay!" and the boy flung his arms round her neck, and whispered in her ear,
"Friedel said it would be a treacherous attack, and I called him a craven.  Oh, mother, we
never parted thus before!  He went up the hillside.  Oh, where is he?"

Infected by the boy's despairing voice, yet relieved that Friedel at least had withstood the
temptation, Christina still held Ebbo's hand, and descended the steps with him.  The clear
blue sky was fast showing the stars, and into the evening stillness echoed the loud wide jodeln,
cast back from the other side of the ravine.  Ebbo tried to raise his voice, but broke down
in the shout, and, choked with agitation, said, "Let me go, mother.  None know his haunts as I do!"

"Hark!" she said, only grasping him tighter.

Thinner, shriller, clearer came a far-away cry from the heights, and Ebbo thrilled from head
to foot, then sent up another pealing mountain shout, responded to by a jodel so pitched as
to be plainly not an echo.  "Towards the Red Eyrie," said Hans.

"He will have been to the Ptarmigan's Pool," said Ebbo, sending up his voice again, in hopes
that the answer would sound less distant; but, instead of this, its intonations conveyed, to
these adepts in mountain language, that Friedel stood in need of help.

"Depend upon it," said the startled Ebbo, "that he has got up amongst those rocks where the
dead chamois rolled down last summer; then, as Christina uttered a faint cry of terror, Heinz
added, "Fear not, lady, those are not the jodeln of one who has met with a hurt.  Baron Friedel
has the sense to be patient rather than risk his bones if he cannot move safely in the dark."

"Up after him!" said Ebbo, emitting a variety of shouts intimating speedy aid, and receiving
a halloo in reply that reassured even his mother.  Equipped with a rope and sundry torches
of pinewood, Heinz and two of the serfs were speedily ready, and Christina implored her son
to let her come so far as where she should not impede the others. He gave her his arm, and
Heinz held his torch so as to guide her up a winding path, not in itself very steep, but which
she could never have climbed had daylight shown her what it overhung.  Guided by the constant
exchange of jodeln, they reached a height where the wind blew cold and wild, and Ebbo pointed
to an intensely black shadow overhung by a peak rising like the gable of a house into the sky.
"Yonder lies the tarn," he said.  "Don't stir.  This way lies the cliff.  Fried-mund!" exchanging
the jodel for the name.

"Here!--this way!  Under the Red Eyrie," called back the wanderer; and steering their course
round the rocks above the pool, the rescuers made their way towards the base of the peak, which
was in fact the summit of the mountain, the top of the Eagle's Ladder, the highest step of
which they had attained.  The peak towered over them, and beneath, the castle lights seemed
as if it would be easy to let a stone fall straight down on them.

Friedel's cry seemed to come from under their feet.  "I am here!  I am safe; only it grew so
dark that I durst not climb up or down."

The Schneiderlein explained that he would lower down a rope, which, when fastened round Friedel's
waist, would enable him to climb safely up; and, after a breathless space, the torchlight shone
upon the longed-for face, and Friedel springing on the path, cried, "The mother!--and here!" -

"Oh, Friedel, where have you been?  What is this in your arms?"

He showed them the innocent face of a little white kid.

"Whence is it, Friedel?"

He pointed to the peak, saying, "I was lying on my back by the tarn, when my lady eagle came
sailing overhead, so low that I could see this poor little thing, and hear it bleat."

"Thou hast been to the Eyrie--the inaccessible Eyrie!" exclaimed Ebbo, in amazement.

"That's a mistake.  It is not hard after the first" said Friedel.  "I only waited to watch
the old birds out again."

"Robbed the eagles!  And the young ones?"

"Well," said Friedmund, as if half ashamed, "they were twin eaglets, and their mother had left
them, and I felt as though I could not harm them; so I only bore off their provisions, and
stuck some feathers in my cap.  But by that time the sun was down, and soon I could not see
my footing; and, when I found that I had missed the path, I thought I had best nestle in the
nook where I was, and wait for day.  I grieved for my mother's fear; but oh, to see her here!"

"Ah, Friedel! didst do it to prove my words false?" interposed Ebbo, eagerly.

"What words?"

"Thou knowest.  Make me not speak them again."

"Oh, those!" said Friedel, only now recalling them.  "No, verily; they were but a moment's
anger.  I wanted to save the kid.  I think it is old mother Rika's white kid.  But oh, motherling!
I grieve to have thus frightened you."

Not a single word passed between them upon Ebbo's exploits.  Whether Friedel had seen all from
the heights, or whether he intuitively perceived that his brother preferred silence, he held
his peace, and both were solely occupied in assisting their mother down the pass, the difficulties
of which were far more felt now than in the excitement of the ascent; only when they were near
home, and the boys were walking in the darkness with arms round one another's necks, Christina
heard Friedel say low and rather sadly, "I think I shall be a priest, Ebbo."

To which Ebbo only answered, "Pfui!'

Christina understood that Friedel meant that robbery must be a severance between the brothers.
Alas! had the moment come when their paths must diverge?  Could Ebbo's step not be redeemed?

Ursel reported that Dame Kunigunde had scarcely spoken again, but had retired, like one stunned,
into her bed.  Friedel was half asleep after the exertions of the day; but Ebbo did not speak,
and both soon betook themselves to their little turret chamber within their mother's.

Christina prayed long that night, her heart full of dread of the consequence of this transgression.
Rumours of freebooting castles destroyed by the Swabian League had reached her every wake day,
and, if this outrage were once known, the sufferance that left Adlerstein unmolested must be
over.  There was hope indeed in the weakness and uncertainty of the Government; but present
safety would in reality be the ruin of Ebbo, since he would be encouraged to persist in the
career of violence now unhappily begun.  She knew not what to ask, save that her sons might
be shielded from evil, and might fulfil that promise of her dream, the star in heaven, the
light on earth.  And for the present!--the good God guide her and her sons through the difficult
morrow, and turn the heart of the unhappy old woman below!

When, exhausted with weeping and watching, she rose from her knees, she stole softly into her
sons' turret for a last look at them. Generally they were so much alike in their sleep that
even she was at fault between them; but that night there was no doubt.  Friedel, pale after
the day's hunger and fatigue, slept with relaxed features in the most complete calm; but though
Ebbo's eyes were closed, there was no repose in his face--his hair was tossed, his colour flushed,
his brow contracted, the arm flung across his brother had none of the ease of sleep.  She doubted
whether he were not awake; but, knowing that he would not brook any endeavour to force confidence
he did not offer, she merely hung over them both, murmured a prayer and blessing, and left them.

CHAPTER XI:  THE CHOICE IN LIFE

"Friedel, wake!"

"Is it day?" said Friedel, slowly wakening, and crossing himself as he opened his eyes.  "Surely
the sun is not up--?"

"We must be before the sun!" said Ebbo, who was on his feet, beginning to dress himself.  "Hush,
and come!  Do not wake the mother.  It must be ere she or aught else be astir!  Thy prayers--I
tell thee this is a work as good as prayer."

Half awake, and entirely bewildered, Friedel dipped his finger in the pearl mussel shell of
holy water over their bed, and crossed his own brow and his brother's; then, carrying their
shoes, they crossed their mother's chamber, and crept down stairs.  Ebbo muttered to his brother,
"Stand thou still there, and pray the saints to keep her asleep;" and then, with bare feet,
moved noiselessly behind the wooden partition that shut off his grandmother's box-bedstead
from the rest of the hall.  She lay asleep with open mouth, snoring loudly, and on her pillow
lay the bunch of castle keys, that was always carried to her at night.  It was a moment of
peril when Ebbo touched it; but he had nerved himself to be both steady and dexterous, and
he secured it without a jingle, and then, without entering the hall, descended into a passage
lit by a rough opening cut in the rock.  Friedel, who began to comprehend, followed him close
and joyfully, and at the first door he fitted in, and with some difficulty turned, a key, and
pushed open the door of a vault, where morning light, streaming through the grated window,
showed two captives, who had started to their feet, and now stood regarding the pair in the
doorway as if they thought their dreams were multiplying the young Baron who had led the attack.

"Signori--" began the principal of the two; but Ebbo spoke.

"Sir, you have been brought here by a mistake in the absence of my mother, the lady of the
castle.  If you will follow me, I will restore all that is within my reach, and put you on
your way."

The merchant's knowledge of German was small, but the purport of the words was plain, and he
gladly left the damp, chilly vault.  Ebbo pointed to the bales that strewed the hall.  "Take
all that can be carried," he said.  "Here is your sword, and your purse," he said, for these
had been given to him in the moment of victory.  "I will bring out your horse and lead you
to the pass."

"Give him food," whispered Friedel; but the merchant was too anxious to have any appetite.
Only he faltered in broken German a proposal to pay his respects to the Signora Castellana,
to whom he owed so much.

"No!  Dormit in lecto," said Ebbo, with a sudden inspiration caught from the Latinized sound
of some of the Italian words, but colouring desperately as he spoke.

The Latin proved most serviceable, and the merchant understood that his property was restored,
and made all speed to gather it together, and transport it to the stable.  One or two of his
beasts of burden had been lost in the fray, and there were more packages than could well be
carried by the merchant, his servant, and his horse.  Ebbo gave the aid of the old white mare--now
very white indeed--and in truth the boys pitied the merchant's fine young bay for being put
to base trading uses, and were rather shocked to hear that it had been taken in payment for
a knight's branched velvet gown, and would be sold again at Ulm.

"What a poor coxcomb of a knight!" said they to one another, as they patted the creature's
neck with such fervent admiration that the merchant longed to present it to them, when he saw
that the old white mare was the sole steed they possessed, and watched their tender guidance
both of her and of the bay up the rocky path so familiar to them.

"But ah, signorini miei, I am an infelice infelicissimo, ever persecuted by le Fate."

"By whom?  A count like Schlangenwald?" asked Ebbo.

"Das Schicksal," whispered Friedel.

"Three long miserable years did I spend as a captive among the Moors, having lost all, my ships
and all I had, and being forced to row their galleys, gli scomunicati."

"Galleys!" exclaimed Ebbo; "there are some pictured in our World History before Carthage. 
Would that I could see one!"

"The signorino would soon have seen his fill, were he between the decks, chained to the bench
for weeks together, without ceasing to row for twenty-four hours together, with a renegade
standing over to lash us, or to put a morsel into our mouths if we were fainting."

"The dogs!  Do they thus use Christian men?" cried Friedel.

"Si, si--ja wohl.  There were a good fourscore of us, and among them a Tedesco, a good man
and true, from whom I learnt la lingua loro."

"Our tongue!--from whom?" asked one twin of the other.

"A Tedesco, a fellow-countryman of sue eccellenze."

"Deutscher!" cried both boys, turning in horror, "our Germans so treated by the pagan villains?"

"Yea, truly, signorini miei.  This fellow-captive of mine was a cavaliere in his own land,
but he had been betrayed and sold by his enemies, and he mourned piteously for la sposa sua--his
bride, as they say here.  A goodly man and a tall, piteously cramped in the narrow deck, I
grieved to leave him there when the good confraternita at Genoa paid my ransom.  Having learnt
to speak il Tedesco, and being no longer able to fit out a vessel, I made my venture beyond
the Alps; but, alas! till this moment fortune has still been adverse. My mules died of the
toil of crossing the mountains; and, when with reduced baggage I came to the river beneath
there--when my horses fell and my servants fled, and the peasants came down with their hayforks--I
thought myself in hands no better than those of the Moors themselves."

"It was wrongly done," said Ebbo, in an honest, open tone, though blushing.  "I have indeed
a right to what may be stranded on the bank, but never more shall foul means be employed for
the overthrow."

The boys had by this time led the traveller through the Gemsbock's Pass, within sight of the
convent.  "There," said Ebbo, "will they give you harbourage, food, a guide, and a beast to
carry the rest of your goods.  We are now upon convent land, and none will dare to touch your
bales; so I will unload old Schimmel."

"Ah, signorino, if I might offer any token of gratitude--"

"Nay," said Ebbo, with boyish lordliness, "make me not a spoiler."

"If the signorini should ever come to Genoa," continued the trader, "and would honour Gian
Battista dei Battiste with a call, his whole house would be at their feet."

"Thanks; I would that we could see strange lands!" said Ebbo.  "But come, Friedel, the sun
is high, and I locked them all into the castle to make matters safe."

"May the liberated captive know the name of his deliverers, that he may commend it to the saints?"
asked the merchant.

"I am Eberhard, Freiherr von Adlerstein, and this is Freiherr Friedmund, my brother.  Farewell,
sir."

"Strange," muttered the merchant, as he watched the two boys turn down the pass, "strange how
like one barbarous name is to another. Eberardo!  That was what we called il Tedesco, and,
when he once told me his family name, it ended in stino; but all these foreign names sound
alike.  Let us speed on, lest these accursed peasants should wake, and be beyond the control
of the signorino."

"Ah!" sighed Ebbo, as soon as he had hurried out of reach of the temptation, "small use in
being a baron if one is to be no better mounted!"

"Thou art glad to have let that fair creature go free, though," said Friedel.

"Nay, my mother's eyes would let me have no rest in keeping him. Otherwise--Talk not to me
of gladness, Friedel!  Thou shouldst know better.  How is one to be a knight with nothing to
ride but a beast old enough to be his grandmother?"

"Knighthood of the heart may be content to go afoot," said Friedel. "Oh, Ebbo, what a brother
thou art!  How happy the mother will be!"

"Pfui, Friedel; what boots heart without spur?  I am sick of being mewed up here within these
walls of rock!  No sport, not even with falling on a traveller.  I am worse off than ever were
my forefathers!"

"But how is it?  I cannot understand," asked Friedel.  "What has changed thy mind?"

"Thou, and the mother, and, more than all, the grandame.  Listen, Friedel:  when thou camest
up, in all the whirl of eagerness and glad preparation, with thy grave face and murmur that
Jobst had put forked stakes in the stream, it was past man's endurance to be baulked of the
fray.  Thou hast forgotten what I said to thee then, good Friedel?"

"Long since.  No doubt I thrust in vexatiously."

"Not so," said Ebbo; "and I saw thou hadst reason, for the stakes were most maliciously planted,
with long branches hid by the current; but the fellows were showing fight, and I could not
stay to think then, or I should have seemed to fear them!  I can tell you we made them run!
But I never meant the grandmother to put yon poor fellow in the dungeon, and use him worse
than a dog.  I wot that he was my captive, and none of hers.  And then came the mother; and
oh, Friedel, she looked as if I were slaying her when she saw the spoil; and, ere I had made
her see right and reason, the old lady came swooping down in full malice and spite, and actually
came to blows. She struck the motherling--struck her on the face, Friedel!"

"I fear me it has so been before," said Friedel, sadly.

"Never will it be so again," said Ebbo, standing still.  "I took the old hag by the hands,
and told her she had ruled long enough!  My father's wife is as good a lady of the castle as
my grandfather's, and I myself am lord thereof; and, since my Lady Kunigunde chooses to cross
me and beat my mother about this capture, why she has seen the last of it, and may learn who
is master, and who is mistress!"

"Oh, Ebbo!  I would I had seen it!  But was not she outrageous?  Was not the mother shrinking
and ready to give back all her claims at once?"

"Perhaps she would have been, but just then she found thou wast not with me, and I found thou
wast not with her, and we thought of nought else.  But thou must stand by me, Friedel, and
help to keep the grandmother in her place, and the mother in hers."

"If the mother WILL be kept," said Friedel.  "I fear me she will only plead to be left to the
grandame's treatment, as before."

"Never, Friedel!  I will never see her so used again.  I released this man solely to show that
she is to rule here.--Yes, I know all about freebooting being a deadly sin, and moreover that
it will bring the League about our ears; and it was a cowardly trick of Jobst to put those
branches in the stream.  Did I not go over it last night till my brain was dizzy?  But still,
it is but living and dying like our fathers, and I hate tameness or dullness, and it is like
a fool to go back from what one has once begun."

"No; it is like a brave man, when one has begun wrong," said Friedel.

"But then I thought of the grandame triumphing over the gentle mother--and I know the mother
wept over her beads half the night. She SHALL find she has had her own way for once this morning."

Friedel was silent for a few moments, then said, "Let me tell thee what I saw yesterday, Ebbo."

"So," answered the other brother.

"I liked not to vex my mother by my tidings, so I climbed up to the tarn.  There is something
always healing in that spot, is it not so, Ebbo?  When the grandmother has been raving" (hitherto
Friedel's worst grievance) "it is like getting up nearer the quiet sky in the stillness there,
when the sky seems to have come down into the deep blue water, and all is so still, so wondrous
still and calm.  I wonder if, when we see the great Dome Kirk itself, it will give one's spirit
wings, as does the gazing up from the Ptarmigan's Pool."

"Thou minnesinger, was it the blue sky thou hadst to tell me of?"

"No, brother, it was ere I reached it that I saw this sight.  I had scaled the peak where grows
the stunted rowan, and I sat down to look down on the other side of the gorge.  It was clear
where I sat, but the ravine was filled with clouds, and upon them--"

"The shape of the blessed Friedmund, thy patron?"

"OUR patron," said Friedel; "I saw him, a giant form in gown and hood, traced in grey shadow
upon the dazzling white cloud; and oh, Ebbo! he was struggling with a thinner, darker, wilder
shape bearing a club.  He strove to withhold it; his gestures threatened and warned!  I watched
like one spell-bound, for it was to me as the guardian spirit of our race striving for thee
with the enemy."

"How did it end?"

"The cloud darkened, and swallowed them; nor should I have known the issue, if suddenly, on
the very cloud where the strife had been, there had not beamed forth a rainbow--not a common
rainbow, Ebbo, but a perfect ring, a soft-glancing, many-tinted crown of victory.  Then I knew
the saint had won, and that thou wouldst win."

"I!  What, not thyself--his own namesake?"

"I thought, Ebbo, if the fight went very hard--nay, if for a time the grandame led thee her
way--that belike I might serve thee best by giving up all, and praying for thee in the hermit's
cave, or as a monk."

"Thou!--thou, my other self!  Aid me by burrowing in a hole like a rat!  What foolery wilt
say next?  No, no, Friedel, strike by my side, and I will strike with thee; pray by my side,
and I will pray with thee; but if thou takest none of the strokes, then will I none of the
prayers!"

"Ebbo, thou knowest not what thou sayest."

"No one knows better!  See, Friedel, wouldst thou have me all that the old Adlersteinen were,
and worse too? then wilt thou leave me and hide thine head in some priestly cowl.  Maybe thou
thinkest to pray my soul into safety at the last moment as a favour to thine own abundant sanctity;
but I tell thee, Friedel, that's no manly way to salvation.  If thou follow'st that track,
I'll take care to get past the border-line within which prayer can help."

Friedel crossed himself, and uttered an imploring exclamation of horror at these wild words.

"Stay," said Ebbo; "I said not I meant any such thing--so long as thou wilt be with me.  My
purpose is to be a good man and true, a guard to the weak, a defence against the Turk, a good
lord to my vassals, and, if it may not be otherwise, I will take my oath to the Kaiser, and
keep it.  Is that enough for thee, Friedel, or wouldst thou see me a monk at once?"

"Oh, Ebbo, this is what we ever planned.  I only dreamed of the other when--when thou didst
seem to be on the other track."

"Well, what can I do more than turn back?  I'll get absolution on Sunday, and tell Father Norbert
that I will do any penance he pleases; and warn Jobst that, if he sets any more traps in the
river, I will drown him there next!  Only get this priestly fancy away, Friedel, once and for
ever!"

"Never, never could I think of what would sever us," cried Friedel, "save--when--" he added,
hesitating, unwilling to harp on the former string.  Ebbo broke in imperiously,

"Friedmund von Adlerstein, give me thy solemn word that I never again hear of this freak of
turning priest or hermit.  What! art slow to speak?  Thinkest me too bad for thee?"

"No, Ebbo.  Heaven knows thou art stronger, more resolute than I.  I am more likely to be too
bad for thee.  But so long as we can be true, faithful God-fearing Junkern together, Heaven
forbid that we should part!"

"It is our bond!" said Ebbo; "nought shall part us."

"Nought but death," said Friedmund, solemnly.

"For my part," said Ebbo, with perfect seriousness, "I do not believe that one of us can live
or die without the other.  But, hark! there's an outcry at the castle!  They have found out
that they are locked in!  Ha! ho! hilloa, Hatto, how like you playing prisoner?"

Ebbo would have amused himself with the dismay of his garrison a little longer, had not Friedel
reminded him that their mother might be suffering for their delay, and this suggestion made
him march in hastily.  He found her standing drooping under the pitiless storm which Frau Kunigunde
was pouring out at the highest pitch of her cracked, trembling voice, one hand uplifted and
clenched, the other grasping the back of a chair, while her whole frame shook with rage too
mighty for her strength.

"Grandame," said Ebbo, striding up to the scene of action, "cease. Remember my words yestereve."

"She has stolen the keys!  She has tampered with the servants!  She has released the prisoner--thy
prisoner, Ebbo!  She has cheated us as she did with Wildschloss!  False burgherinn!  I trow
she wanted another suitor!  Bane--pest of Adlerstein!"

Friedmund threw a supporting arm round his mother, but Ebbo confronted the old lady.  "Grandmother,"
he said, "I freed the captive.  I stole the keys--I and Friedel!  No one else knew my purpose.
He was my captive, and I released him because he was foully taken.  I have chosen my lot in
life," he added; and, standing in the middle of the hall, he took off his cap, and spoke gravely:-
"I will not be a treacherous robber-outlaw, but, so help me God, a faithful, loyal, godly nobleman."

His mother and Friedel breathed an "Amen" with all their hearts; and he continued,

"And thou, grandame, peace!  Such reverence shalt thou have as befits my father's mother; but
henceforth mine own lady-mother is the mistress of this castle, and whoever speaks a rude word
to her offends the Freiherr von Adlerstein."

That last day's work had made a great step in Ebbo's life, and there he stood, grave and firm,
ready for the assault; for, in effect, he and all besides expected that the old lady would
fly at him or at his mother like a wild cat, as she would assuredly have done in a like case
a year earlier; but she took them all by surprise by collapsing into her chair and sobbing
piteously.  Ebbo, much distressed, tried to make her understand that she was to have all care
and honour; but she muttered something about ingratitude, and continued to exhaust herself
with weeping, spurning away all who approached her; and thenceforth she lived in a gloomy,
sullen acquiescence in her deposition.

Christina inclined to the opinion that she must have had some slight stroke in the night, for
she was never the same woman again; her vigour had passed away, and she would sit spinning,
or rocking herself in her chair, scarcely alive to what passed, or scolding and fretting like
a shadow of her old violence.  Nothing pleased her but the attentions of her grandsons, and
happily she soon ceased to know them apart, and gave Ebbo credit for all that was done for
her by Friedel, whose separate existence she seemed to have forgotten.

As long as her old spirit remained she would not suffer the approach of her daughter-in-law,
and Christina could only make suggestions for her comfort to be acted on by Ursel; and though
the reins of government fast dropped from the aged hands, they were but gradually and cautiously
assumed by the younger Baroness.

Only Elsie remained of the rude, demoralized girls whom she had found in the castle, and their
successors, though dull and uncouth, were meek and manageable; the men of the castle had all,
except Matz, been always devoted to the Frau Christina; and Matz, to her great relief, ran
away so soon as he found that decency and honesty were to be the rule.  Old Hatto, humpbacked
Hans, and Heinz the Schneiderlein, were the whole male establishment, and had at least the
merit of attachment to herself and her sons; and in time there was a shade of greater civilization
about the castle, though impeded both by dire poverty and the doggedness of the old retainers.
At least the court was cleared of the swine, and, within doors, the table was spread with dainty
linen out of the parcels from Ulm, and the meals served with orderliness that annoyed the boys
at first, but soon became a subject of pride and pleasure.

Frau Kunigunde lingered long, with increasing infirmities.  After the winter day, when, running
down at a sudden noise, Friedel picked her up from the hearthstone, scorched, bruised, almost
senseless, she accepted Christina's care with nothing worse than a snarl, and gradually seemed
to forget the identity of her nurse with the interloping burgher girl.  Thanks or courtesy
had been no part of her nature, least of all towards her own sex, and she did little but grumble,
fret, and revile her attendant; but she soon depended so much on Christina's care, that it
was hardly possible to leave her. At her best and strongest, her talk was maundering abuse
of her son's low-born wife; but at times her wanderings showed black gulfs of iniquity and
coarseness of soul that would make the gentle listener tremble, and be thankful that her sons
were out of hearing.  And thus did Christina von Adlerstein requite fifteen years of persecution.

The old lady's first failure had been in the summer of 1488; it was the Advent season of 1489,
when the snow was at the deepest, and the frost at the hardest, that the two hardy mountaineer
grandsons fetched over the pass Father Norbert, and a still sturdier, stronger monk, to the
dying woman.

"Are we in time, mother?" asked Ebbo, from the door of the upper chamber, where the Adlersteins
began and ended life, shaking the snow from his mufflings.  Ruddy with exertion in the sharp
wind, what a contrast he was to all within the room!

"Who is that?" said a thin, feeble voice.

"It is Ebbo.  It is the Baron," said Christina.  "Come in, Ebbo.  She is somewhat revived."

"Will she be able to speak to the priest?" asked Ebbo.

"Priest!" feebly screamed the old woman.  "No priest for me!  My lord died unshriven, unassoilzied.
Where he is, there will I be.  Let a priest approach me at his peril!"

Stony insensibility ensued; nor did she speak again, though life lasted many hours longer.
The priests did their office; for, impenitent as the life and frantic as the words had been,
the opinions of the time deemed that their rites might yet give the departing soul a chance,
though the body was unconscious.

When all was over, snow was again falling, shifting and drifting, so that it was impossible
to leave the castle, and the two monks were kept there for a full fortnight, during which Christmas
solemnities were observed in the chapel, for the first time since the days of Friedmund the
Good.  The corpse of Kunigunde, preserved--we must say the word--salted, was placed in a coffin,
and laid in that chapel to await the melting of the snows, when the vault at the Hermitage
could be opened.  And this could not be effected till Easter had nearly come round again, and
it was within a week of their sixteenth birthday that the two young Barons stood together at
the coffin's head, serious indeed, but more with the thought of life than of death.

CHAPTER XII:  BACK TO THE DOVECOTE

For the first time in her residence at Adlerstein, now full half her life, the Freiherrinn
Christina ventured to send a messenger to Ulm, namely, a lay brother of the convent of St.
Ruprecht, who undertook to convey to Master Gottfried Sorel her letter, informing him of the
death of her mother-in-law, and requesting him to send the same tidings to the Freiherr von
Adlerstein Wildschloss, the kinsman and godfather of her sons.

She was used to wait fifty-two weeks for answers to her letters, and was amazed when, at the
end of three, two stout serving-men were guided by Jobst up the pass; but her heart warmed
to their flat caps and round jerkins, they looked so like home.  They bore a letter of invitation
to her and her sons to come at once to her uncle's house. The King of the Romans, and perhaps
the Emperor, were to come to the city early in the summer, and there could be no better opportunity
of presenting the young Barons to their sovereign.  Sir Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss would
meet them there for the purpose, and would obtain their admission to the League, in which all
Swabian nobles had bound themselves to put down robbery and oppression, and outside which there
was nothing but outlawry and danger.

"So must it be?" said Ebbo, between his teeth, as he leant moodily against the wall, while
his mother was gone to attend to the fare to be set before the messengers.

"What! art not glad to take wing at last?" exclaimed Friedel, cut short in an exclamation of
delight.

"Take wing, forsooth!  To be guest of a greasy burgher, and call cousin with him!  Fear not,
Friedel; I'll not vex the motherling. Heaven knows she has had pain, grief, and subjection
enough in her lifetime, and I would not hinder her visit to her home; but I would she could
go alone, nor make us show our poverty to the swollen city folk, and listen to their endearments.
I charge thee, Friedel, do as I do; be not too familiar with them.  Could we but sprain an
ankle over the crag--"

"Nay, she would stay to nurse us," said Friedel, laughing; "besides, thou art needed for the
matter of homage."

"Look, Friedel," said Ebbo, sinking his voice, "I shall not lightly yield my freedom to king
or Kaiser.  Maybe, there is no help for it; but it irks me to think that I should be the last
Lord of Adlerstein to whom the title of Freiherr is not a mockery.  Why dost bend thy brow,
brother?  What art thinking of?"

"Only a saying in my mother's book, that well-ordered service is true freedom," said Friedel.
"And methinks there will be freedom in rushing at last into the great far-off!"--the boy's
eye expanded and glistened with eagerness.  "Here are we prisoners--to ourselves, if you like--but
prisoners still, pent up in the rocks, seeing no one, hearing scarce an echo from the knightly
or the poet world, nor from all the wonders that pass.  And the world has a history going on
still, like the Chronicle.  Oh, Ebbo, think of being in the midst of life, with lance and sword,
and seeing the Kaiser--the Kaiser of the holy Roman Empire!"

"With lance and sword, well and good; but would it were not at the cost of liberty!"

However Ebbo forbore to damp his mother's joy, save by the one warning--"Understand, mother,
that I will not be pledged to anything. I will not bend to the yoke ere I have seen and judged
for myself."

The manly sound of the words gave a sweet sense of exultation to the mother, even while she
dreaded the proud spirit, and whispered, "God direct thee, my son."

Certainly Ebbo, hitherto the most impetuous and least thoughtful of the two lads, had a gravity
and seriousness about him, that, but for his naturally sweet temper, would have seemed sullen.
His aspirations for adventure had hitherto been more vehement than Friedel's; but, when the
time seemed at hand, his regrets at what he might have to yield overpowered his hopes of the
future.  The fierce haughtiness of the old Adlersteins could not brook the descent from the
crag, even while the keen, clear burgher wit that Ebbo inherited from the other side of the
house taught him that the position was untenable, and that his isolated glory was but a poor
mean thing after all.  And the struggle made him sad and moody.

Friedel, less proud, and with nothing to yield, was open to blithe anticipations of what his
fancy pictured as the home of all the beauty, sacred or romantic, that he had glimpsed at through
his mother.  Religion, poetry, learning, art, refinement, had all come to him through her;
and though he had a soul that dreamt and soared in the lonely grandeur of the mountain heights,
it craved further aliment for its yearnings for completeness and perfection.  Long ago had
Friedel come to the verge of such attainments as he could work out of his present materials,
and keen had been his ardour for the means of progress, though only the mountain tarn had ever
been witness to the full outpouring of the longings with which he gazed upon the dim, distant
city like a land of enchantment.

The journey was to be at once, so as to profit by the escort of Master Sorel's men.  Means
of transport were scanty, but Ebbo did not choose that the messengers should report the need,
and bring back a bevy of animals at the burgher's expense; so the mother was mounted on the
old white mare, and her sons and Heinz trusted to their feet. By setting out early on a May
morning, the journey could be performed ere night, and the twilight would find them in the
domains of the free city, where their small numbers would be of no importance.  As to their
appearance, the mother wore a black woollen gown and mantle, and a black silk hood tied under
her chin, and sitting loosely round the stiff frame of her white cap--a nun-like garb, save
for the soft brown hair, parted over her brow, and more visible than she sometimes thought
correct, but her sons would not let her wear it out of sight.

The brothers had piece by piece surveyed the solitary suit of armour remaining in the castle;
but, though it might serve for defence, it could not be made fit for display, and they must
needs be contented with blue cloth, spun, woven, dyed, fashioned, and sewn at home, chiefly
by their mother, and by her embroidered on the breast with the white eagle of Adlerstein. 
Short blue cloaks and caps of the same, with an eagle plume in each, and leggings neatly fashioned
of deerskin, completed their equipments.  Ebbo wore his father's sword, Friedel had merely
a dagger and crossbow.  There was not a gold chain, not a brooch, not an approach to an ornament
among the three, except the medal that had always distinguished Ebbo, and the coral rosary
at Christina's girdle.  Her own trinkets had gone in masses for the souls of her father and
husband; and though a few costly jewels had been found in Frau Kunigunde's hoards, the mode
of their acquisition was so doubtful, that it had seemed fittest to bestow them in alms and
masses for the good of her soul.

"What ornament, what glory could any one desire better than two such sons?" thought Christina,
as for the first time for eighteen years she crossed the wild ravine where her father had led
her, a trembling little captive, longing for wings like a dove's to flutter home again.  Who
would then have predicted that she should descend after so long and weary a time, and with
a gallant boy on either side of her, eager to aid her every step, and reassure her at each
giddy pass, all joy and hope before her and them?  Yet she was not without some dread and misgiving,
as she watched her elder son, always attentive to her, but unwontedly silent, with a stern
gravity on his young brow, a proud sadness on his lip.  And when he had come to the Debateable
Ford, and was about to pass the boundaries of his own lands, he turned and gazed back on the
castle and mountain with a silent but passionate ardour, as though he felt himself doing them
a wrong by perilling their independence.

The sun had lately set, and the moon was silvering the Danube, when the travellers came full
in view of the imperial free city, girt in with mighty walls and towers--the vine-clad hill
dominated by its crowning church; the irregular outlines of the unfinished spire of the cathedral
traced in mysterious dark lacework against the pearly sky; the lofty steeple-like gate-tower
majestically guarding the bridge.  Christina clasped her hands in thankfulness, as at the familiar
face of a friend; Friedel glowed like a minstrel introduced to his fair dame, long wooed at
a distance; Ebbo could not but exclaim, "Yea, truly, a great city is a solemn and a glorious
sight!"

The gates were closed, and the serving-men had to parley at the barbican ere the heavy door
was opened to admit the party to the bridge, between deep battlemented stone walls, with here
and there loopholes, showing the shimmering of the river beneath.  The slow, tired tread of
the old mare sounded hollow; the river rushed below with the full swell of evening loudness;
a deep-toned convent-bell tolled gravely through the stillness, while, between its reverberations,
clear, distinct notes of joyous music were borne on the summer wind, and a nightingale sung
in one of the gardens that bordered the banks.

"Mother, it is all that I dreamt!" breathlessly murmured Friedel, as they halted under the
dark arch of the great gateway tower.

Not however in Friedel's dreams had been the hearty voice that proceeded from the lighted guard-room
in the thickness of the gateway.  "Freiherrinn von Adlerstein!  Is it she?  Then must I greet
my old playmate!"  And the captain of the watch appeared among upraised lanterns and torches
that showed a broad, smooth, plump face beneath a plain steel helmet.

"Welcome, gracious lady, welcome to your old city.  What! do you not remember Lippus Grundt,
your poor Valentine?"

"Master Philip Grundt!" exclaimed Christina, amazed at the breadth of visage and person; "and
how fares it with my good Regina?"

"Excellent well, good lady.  She manages her trade and house as well as the good man Bartolaus
Fleischer himself.  Blithe will she be to show you her goodly ten, as I shall my eight," he
continued, walking by her side; "and Barbara--you remember Barbara Schmidt, lady--"

"My dear Barbara?--That do I indeed!  Is she your wife?"

"Ay, truly, lady," he answered, in an odd sort of apologetic tone; "you see, you returned not,
and the housefathers, they would have it so--and Barbara is a good housewife."

"Truly do I rejoice!" said Christina, wishing she could convey to him how welcome he had been
to marry any one he liked, as far as she was concerned--he, in whom her fears of mincing goldsmiths
had always taken form--then signing with her hand, "I have my sons likewise to show her."

"Ah, on foot!" muttered Grundt, as a not well-conceived apology for not having saluted the
young gentlemen.  "I greet you well, sirs," with a bow, most haughtily returned by Ebbo, who
was heartily wishing himself on his mountain.  "Two lusty, well-grown Junkern indeed, to whom
my Martin will be proud to show the humours of Ulm.  A fair good night, lady!  You will find
the old folks right cheery."

Well did Christina know the turn down the street, darkened by the overhanging brows of the
tall houses, but each lower window laughing with the glow of light within that threw out the
heavy mullions and the circles and diamonds of the latticework, and here and there the brilliant
tints of stained glass sparkled like jewels in the upper panes, pictured with Scripture scene,
patron saint, or trade emblem. The familiar porch was reached, the familiar knock resounded
on the iron-studded door.  Friedel lifted his mother from her horse, and felt that she was
quivering from head to foot, and at the same moment the light streamed from the open door on
the white horse, and the two young faces, one eager, the other with knit brows and uneasy eyes.
A kind of echo pervaded the house, "She is come! she is come!" and as one in a dream Christina
entered, crossed the well-known hall, looked up to her uncle and aunt on the stairs, perceived
little change on their countenances, and sank upon her knees, with bowed head and clasped hands.

"My child! my dear child!" exclaimed her uncle, raising her with one hand, and crossing her
brow in benediction with the other.  "Art thou indeed returned?" and he embraced her tenderly.

"Welcome, fair niece!" said Hausfrau Johanna, more formally.  "I am right glad to greet you here."

"Dear, dear mother!" cried Christina, courting her fond embrace by gestures of the most eager
affection, "how have I longed for this moment! and, above all, to show you my boys!  Herr Uncle,
let me present my sons--my Eberhard, my Friedmund.  O Housemother, are not my twins well-grown
lads?"  And she stood with a hand on each, proud that their heads were so far above her own,
and looking still so slight and girlish in figure that she might better have been their sister
than their mother.  The cloud that the sudden light had revealed on Ebbo's brow had cleared
away, and he made an inclination neither awkward nor ungracious in its free mountain dignity
and grace, but not devoid of mountain rusticity and shy pride, and far less cordial than was
Friedel's manner.  Both were infinitely relieved to detect nothing of the greasy burgher, and
were greatly struck with the fine venerable head before them; indeed, Friedel would, like his
mother, have knelt to ask a blessing, had he not been under command not to outrun his brother's
advances towards her kindred.

"Welcome, fair Junkern!" said Master Gottfried; "welcome both for your mother's sake and your
own!  These thy sons, my little one?" he added, smiling.  "Art sure I neither dream nor see
double!  Come to the gallery, and let me see thee better."

And, ceremoniously giving his hand, he proceeded to lead his niece up the stairs, while Ebbo,
labouring under ignorance of city forms and uncertainty of what befitted his dignity, presented
his hand to his aunt with an air that half-amused, half-offended the shrewd dame.

"All is as if I had left you but yesterday!" exclaimed Christina. "Uncle, have you pardoned
me?  You bade me return when my work was done."

"I should have known better, child.  Such return is not to be sought on this side the grave.
Thy work has been more than I then thought of."

"Ah! and now will you deem it begun--not done!" softly said Christina, though with too much
heartfelt exultation greatly to doubt that all the world must be satisfied with two such boys,
if only Ebbo would be his true self.

The luxury of the house, the wainscoted and tapestried walls, the polished furniture, the lamps
and candles, the damask linen, the rich array of silver, pewter, and brightly-coloured glass,
were a great contrast to the bare walls and scant necessaries of Schloss Adlerstein; but Ebbo
was resolved not to expose himself by admiration, and did his best to stifle Friedel's exclamations
of surprise and delight.  Were not these citizens to suppose that everything was tenfold more
costly at the baronial castle?  And truly the boy deserved credit for the consideration for
his mother, which made him merely reserved, while he felt like a wild eagle in a poultry-yard.
It was no small proof of his affection to forbear more interference with his mother's happiness
than was the inevitable effect of that intuition which made her aware that he was chafing and
ill at ease.  For his sake, she allowed herself to be placed in the seat of honour, though
she longed, as of old, to nestle at her uncle's feet, and be again his child; but, even while
she felt each acceptance of a token of respect as almost an injury to them, every look and
tone was showing how much the same Christina she had returned.

In truth, though her life had been mournful and oppressed, it had not been such as to age her
early.  It had been all submission, without wear and tear of mind, and too simple in its trials
for care and moiling; so the fresh, lily-like sweetness of her maiden bloom was almost intact,
and, much as she had undergone, her once frail health had been so braced by the mountain breezes,
that, though delicacy remained, sickliness was gone from her appearance.  There was still the
exquisite purity and tender modesty of expression, but with greater sweetness in the pensive
brown eyes.

"Ah, little one!" said her uncle, after duly contemplating her; "the change is all for the
better!  Thou art grown a wondrously fair dame. There will scarce be a lovelier in the Kaiserly
train."

Ebbo almost pardoned his great-uncle for being his great-uncle.

"When she is arrayed as becomes the Frau Freiherrinn," said the housewife aunt, looking with
concern at the coarse texture of her black sleeve.  "I long to see our own lady ruffle it in
her new gear. I am glad that the lofty pointed cap has passed out; the coif becomes my child
far better, and I see our tastes still accord as to fashion."

"Fashion scarce came above the Debateable Ford," said Christina, smiling.  "I fear my boys
look as if they came out of the Weltgeschichte, for I could only shape their garments after
my remembrance of the gallants of eighteen years ago."

"Their garments are your own shaping!" exclaimed the aunt, now in an accent of real, not conventional
respect.

"Spinning and weaving, shaping and sewing," said Friedel, coming near to let the housewife
examine the texture.

"Close woven, even threaded, smooth tinted!  Ah, Stina, thou didst learn something!  Thou wert
not quite spoilt by the housefather's books and carvings."

"I cannot tell whose teachings have served me best, or been the most precious to me," said
Christina, with clasped hands, looking from one to another with earnest love.

"Thou art a good child.  Ah! little one, forgive me; you look so like our child that I cannot
bear in mind that you are the Frau Freiherrinn."

"Nay, I should deem myself in disgrace with you, did you keep me at a distance, and not THOU
me, as your little Stina," she fondly answered, half regretting her fond eager movement, as
Ebbo seemed to shrink together with a gesture perceived by her uncle.

"It is my young lord there who would not forgive the freedom," he said, good-humouredly, though
gravely.

"Not so," Ebbo forced himself to say; "not so, if it makes my mother happy."

He held up his head rather as if he thought it a fool's paradise, but Master Gottfried answered:
"The noble Freiherr is, from all I have heard, too good a son to grudge his mother's duteous
love even to burgher kindred."

There was something in the old man's frank, dignified tone of grave reproof that at once impressed
Ebbo with a sense of the true superiority of that wise and venerable old age to his own petulant
baronial self-assertion.  He had both head and heart to feel the burgher's victory, and with
a deep blush, though not without dignity, he answered, "Truly, sir, my mother has ever taught
us to look up to you as her kindest and best--"

He was going to say "friend," but a look into the grand benignity of the countenance completed
the conquest, and he turned it into "father."  Friedel at the same instant bent his knee, exclaiming,
"It is true what Ebbo says!  We have both longed for this day.  Bless us, honoured uncle, as
you have blessed my mother."

For in truth there was in the soul of the boy, who had never had any but women to look up to,
a strange yearning towards reverence, which was called into action with inexpressible force
by the very aspect and tone of such a sage elder and counsellor as Master Gottfried Sorel,
and he took advantage of the first opening permitted by his brother.  And the sympathy always
so strong between the two quickened the like feeling in Ebbo, so that the same movement drew
him on his knee beside Friedel in oblivion or renunciation of all lordly pride towards a kinsman
such as he had here encountered.

"Truly and heartily, my fair youths," said Master Gottfried, with the same kind dignity, "do
I pray the good God to bless you, and render you faithful and loving sons, not only to your
mother, but to your fatherland."

He was unable to distinguish between the two exactly similar forms that knelt before him, yet
there was something in the quivering of Friedel's head, which made him press it with a shade
more of tenderness than the other.  And in truth tears were welling into the eyes veiled by
the fingers that Friedel clasped over his face, for such a blessing was strange and sweet to him.

Their mother was ready to weep for joy.  There was now no drawback to her bliss, since her
son and her uncle had accepted one another; and she repaired to her own beloved old chamber
a happier being than she had been since she had left its wainscoted walls.

Nay, as she gazed out at the familiar outlines of roof and tower, and felt herself truly at
home, then knelt by the little undisturbed altar of her devotions, with the cross above and
her own patron saint below in carved wood, and the flowers which the good aunt had ever kept
as a freshly renewed offering, she felt that she was happier, more fully thankful and blissful
than even in the girlish calm of her untroubled life.  Her prayer that she might come again
in peace had been more than fulfilled; nay, when she had seen her boys kneel meekly to receive
her uncle's blessing, it was in some sort to her as if the work was done, as if the millstone
had been borne up for her, and had borne her and her dear ones with it.

But there was much to come.  She knew full well that, even though her sons' first step had
been in the right direction, it was in a path beset with difficulties; and how would her proud
Ebbo meet them?

CHAPTER XIII:  THE EAGLETS IN THE CITY

After having once accepted Master Gottfried, Ebbo froze towards him and Dame Johanna no more,
save that a naturally imperious temper now and then led to fitful stiffnesses and momentary
haughtiness, which were easily excused in one so new to the world and afraid of compromising
his rank.  In general he could afford to enjoy himself with a zest as hearty as that of the
simpler-minded Friedel.

They were early afoot, but not before the heads of the household were coming forth for the
morning devotions at the cathedral; and the streets were stirring into activity, and becoming
so peopled that the boys supposed that it was a great fair day.  They had never seen so many
people together even at the Friedmund Wake, and it was several days before they ceased to exclaim
at every passenger as a new curiosity.

The Dome Kirk awed and hushed them.  They had looked to it so long that perhaps no sublunary
thing could have realized their expectations, and Friedel avowed that he did not know what
he thought of it.  It was not such as he had dreamt, and, like a German as he was, he added
that he could not think, he could only feel, that there was something ineffable in it; yet
he was almost disappointed to find his visions unfulfilled, and the hues of the painted glass
less pure and translucent than those of the ice crystals on the mountains. However after his
eye had become trained, the deep influence of its dim solemn majesty, and of the echoes of
its organ tones, and chants of high praise or earnest prayer, began to enchain his spirit;
and, if ever he were missing, he was sure to be found among the mysteries of the cathedral
aisles, generally with Ebbo, who felt the spell of the same grave fascination, since whatever
was true of the one brother was generally true of the other.  They were essentially alike,
though some phases of character and taste were more developed in the one or the other.

Master Gottfried was much edified by their perfect knowledge of the names and numbers of his
books.  They instantly, almost resentfully, missed the Cicero's Offices that he had parted
with, and joyfully hailed his new acquisitions, often sitting with heads together over the
same book, reading like active-minded youths who were used to out-of-door life and exercise
in superabundant measure, and to study as a valued recreation, with only food enough for the
intellect to awaken instead of satisfying it.

They were delighted to obtain instruction from a travelling student, then attending the schools
of Ulm--a meek, timid lad who, for love of learning and desire of the priesthood, had endured
frightful tyranny from the Bacchanten or elder scholars, and, having at length attained that
rank, had so little heart to retaliate on the juniors that his contemporaries despised him,
and led him a cruel life until he obtained food and shelter from Master Gottfried at the pleasant
cost of lessons to the young Barons.  Poor Bastien! this land of quiet, civility, and books
was a foretaste of Paradise to him after the hard living, barbarity, and coarse vices of his
comrades, of whom he now and then disclosed traits that made his present pupils long to give
battle to the big shaggy youths who used to send out the lesser lads to beg and steal for them,
and cruelly maltreated such as failed in the quest.

Lessons in music and singing were gladly accepted by both lads, and from their uncle's carving
they could not keep their hands.  Ebbo had begun by enjoining Friedel to remember that the
work that had been sport in the mountains would be basely mechanical in the city, and Friedel
as usual yielded his private tastes; but on the second day Ebbo himself was discovered in the
workshop, watching the magic touch of the deft workman, and he was soon so enticed by the perfect
appliances as to take tool in hand and prove himself not unadroit in the craft.  Friedel however
excelled in delicacy of touch and grace and originality of conception, and produced such workmanship
that Master Gottfried could not help stroking his hair and telling him it was a pity he was
not born to belong to the guild.

"I cannot spare him, sir," cried Ebbo; "priest, scholar, minstrel, artist--all want him."

"What, Hans of all streets, Ebbo?" interrupted Friedel.

"And guildmaster of none," said Ebbo, "save as a warrior; the rest only enough for a gentleman!
For what I am thou must be!"

But Ebbo did not find fault with the skill Friedel was bestowing on his work--a carving in
wood of a dove brooding over two young eagles- -the device that both were resolved to assume.
When their mother asked what their lady-loves would say to this, Ebbo looked up, and with the
fullest conviction in his lustrous eyes declared that no love should ever rival his motherling
in his heart.  For truly her tender sweetness had given her sons' affection a touch of romance,
for which Master Gottfried liked them the better, though his wife thought their familiarity
with her hardly accordant with the patriarchal discipline of the citizens.

The youths held aloof from these burghers, for Master Gottfried wisely desired to give them
time to be tamed before running risk of offence, either to, or by, their wild shy pride; and
their mother contrived to time her meetings with her old companions when her sons were otherwise
occupied.  Master Gottfried made it known that the marriage portion he had designed for his
niece had been intrusted to a merchant trading in peltry to Muscovy, and the sum thus realized
was larger than any bride had yet brought to Adlerstein.  Master Gottfried would have liked
to continue the same profitable speculations with it; but this would have been beyond the young
Baron's endurance, and his eyes sparkled when his mother spoke of repairing the castle, refitting
the chapel, having a resident chaplain, cultivating more land, increasing the scanty stock
of cattle, and attempting the improvements hitherto prevented by lack of means.  He fervently
declared that the motherling was more than equal to the wise spinning Queen Bertha of legend
and lay; and the first pleasant sense of wealth came in the acquisition of horses, weapons,
and braveries.  In his original mood, Ebbo would rather have stood before the Diet in his home-spun
blue than have figured in cloth of gold at a burgher's expense; but he had learned to love
his uncle, he regarded the marriage portion as family property, and moreover he sorely longed
to feel himself and his brother well mounted, and scarcely less to see his mother in a velvet gown.

Here was his chief point of sympathy with the housemother, who, herself precluded from wearing
miniver, velvet, or pearls, longed to deck her niece therewith, in time to receive Sir Kasimir
of Adlerstein Wildschloss, as he had promised to meet his godsons at Ulm.  The knight's marriage
had lasted only a few years, and had left him no surviving children except one little daughter,
whom he had placed in a nunnery at Ulm, under the care of her mother's sister. His lands lay
higher up the Danube, and he was expected at Ulm shortly before the Emperor's arrival.  He
had been chiefly in Flanders with the King of the Romans, and had only returned to Germany
when the Netherlanders had refused the regency of Maximilian, and driven him out of their country,
depriving him of the custody of his children.

Pfingsttag, or Pentecost-day, was the occasion of Christina's first full toilet, and never
was bride more solicitously or exultingly arrayed than she, while one boy held the mirror and
the other criticized and admired as the aunt adjusted the pearl-bordered coif, and long white
veil floating over the long-desired black velvet dress.  How the two lads admired and gazed,
caring far less for their own new and noble attire!  Friedel was indeed somewhat concerned
that the sword by his side was so much handsomer than that which Ebbo wore, and which, for
all its dinted scabbard and battered hilt, he was resolved never to discard.

It was a festival of brilliant joy.  Wreaths of flowers hung from the windows; rich tapestries
decked the Dome Kirk, and the relics were displayed in shrines of wonderful costliness of material
and beauty of workmanship; little birds, with thin cakes fastened to their feet, were let loose
to fly about the church, in strange allusion to the event of the day; the clergy wore their
most gorgeous robes; and the exulting music of the mass echoed from the vaults of the long-drawn
aisles, and brought a rapt look of deep calm ecstasy over Friedel's sensitive features.  The
beggars evidently considered a festival as a harvest-day, and crowded round the doors of the
cathedral.  As the Lady of Adlerstein came out leaning on Ebbo's arm, with Friedel on her other
side, they evidently attracted the notice of a woman whose thin brown face looked the darker
for the striped red and yellow silk kerchief that bound the dark locks round her brow, as,
holding out a beringed hand, she fastened her glittering jet black eyes on them, and exclaimed,
"Alms! if the fair dame and knightly Junkern would hear what fate has in store for them."

"We meddle not with the future, I thank thee," said Christina, seeing that her sons, to whom
gipsies were an amazing novelty, were in extreme surprise at the fortune-telling proposal.

"Yet could I tell much, lady," said the woman, still standing in the way.  "What would some
here present give to know that the locks that were shrouded by the widow's veil ere ever they
wore the matron's coif shall yet return to the coif once more?"

Ebbo gave a sudden start of dismay and passion; his mother held him fast.  "Push on, Ebbo,
mine; heed her not; she is a mere Bohemian."

"But how knew she your history, mother?" asked Friedel, eagerly.

"That might be easily learnt at our Wake," began Christina; but her steps were checked by a
call from Master Gottfried just behind. "Frau Freiherrinn, Junkern, not so fast.  Here is your
noble kinsman."

A tall, fine-looking person, in the long rich robe worn on peaceful occasions, stood forth,
doffing his eagle-plumed bonnet, and, as the lady turned and curtsied low, he put his knee
to the ground and kissed her hand, saying, "Well met, noble dame; I felt certain that I knew
you when I beheld you in the Dome."

"He was gazing at her all the time," whispered Ebbo to his brother; while their mother, blushing,
replied, "You do me too much honour, Herr Freiherr."

"Once seen, never to be forgotten," was the courteous answer:  "and truly, but for the stately
height of these my godsons I would not believe how long since our meeting was."

Thereupon, in true German fashion, Sir Kasimir embraced each youth in the open street, and
then, removing his long, embroidered Spanish glove, he offered his hand, or rather the tips
of his fingers, to lead the Frau Christina home.

Master Sorel had invited him to become his guest at a very elaborate ornamental festival meal
in honour of the great holiday, at which were to be present several wealthy citizens with their
wives and families, old connections of the Sorel family.  Ebbo had resolved upon treating them
with courteous reserve and distance; but he was surprised to find his cousin of Wildschloss
comporting himself among the burgomasters and their dames as freely as though they had been
his equals, and to see that they took such demeanour as perfectly natural.  Quick to perceive,
the boy gathered that the gulf between noble and burgher was so great that no intimacy could
bridge it over, no reserve widen it, and that his own bashful hauteur was almost a sign that
he knew that the gulf had been passed by his own parents; but shame and consciousness did not
enable him to alter his manner but rather added to its stiffness.

"The Junker is like an Englishman," said Sir Kasimir, who had met many of the exiles of the
Roses at the court of Mary of Burgundy; and then he turned to discuss with the guildmasters
the interruption to trade caused by Flemish jealousies.

After the lengthy meal, the tables were removed, the long gallery was occupied by musicians,
and Master Gottfried crossed the hall to tell his eldest grandnephew that to him he should
depute the opening of the dance with the handsome bride of the Rathsherr, Ulrich Burger. Ebbo
blushed up to the eyes, and muttered that he prayed his uncle to excuse him.

"So!" said the old citizen, really displeased; "thy kinsman might have proved to thee that
it is no derogation of thy lordly dignity. I have been patient with thee, but thy pride passes--"

"Sir," interposed Friedel hastily, raising his sweet candid face with a look between shame
and merriment, "it is not that; but you forget what poor mountaineers we are.  Never did we
tread a measure save now and then with our mother on a winter evening, and we know no more
than a chamois of your intricate measures."

Master Gottfried looked perplexed, for these dances were matters of great punctilio.  It was
but seven years since the Lord of Praunstein had defied the whole city of Frankfort because
a damsel of that place had refused to dance with one of his Cousins; and, though "Fistright"
and letters of challenge had been made illegal, yet the whole city of Ulm would have resented
the affront put on it by the young lord of Adlerstein.  Happily the Freiherr of Adlerstein
Wildschloss was at hand.  "Herr Burgomaster," he said, "let me commence the dance with your
fair lady niece.  By your testimony," he added, smiling to the youths, "she can tread a measure.
And, after marking us, you may try your success with the Rathsherrinn."

Christina would gladly have transferred her noble partner to the Rathsherrinn, but she feared
to mortify her good uncle and aunt further, and consented to figure alone with Sir Kasimir
in one of the majestic, graceful dances performed by a single couple before a gazing assembly.
So she let him lead her to her place, and they bowed and bent, swept past one another, and
moved in interlacing lines and curves, with a grand slow movement that displayed her quiet
grace and his stately port and courtly air.

"Is it not beautiful to see the motherling?" said Friedel to his brother; "she sails like a
white cloud in a soft wind.  And he stands grand as a stag at gaze."

"Like a malapert peacock, say I," returned Ebbo; "didst not see, Friedel, how he kept his eyes
on her in church?  My uncle says the Bohemians are mere deceivers.  Depend on it the woman
had spied his insolent looks when she made her ribald prediction."

"See," said Friedel, who had been watching the steps rather than attending, "it will be easy
to dance it now.  It is a figure my mother once tried to teach us.  I remember it now."

"Then go and do it, since better may not be."

"Nay, but it should be thou."

"Who will know which of us it is?  I hated his presumption too much to mark his antics."

Friedel came forward, and the substitution was undetected by all save their mother and uncle;
by the latter only because, addressing Ebbo, he received a reply in a tone such as Friedel
never used.

Natural grace, quickness of ear and eye, and a skilful partner, rendered Friedel's so fair
a performance that he ventured on sending his brother to attend the councilloress with wine
and comfits; while he in his own person performed another dance with the city dame next in
pretension, and their mother was amused by Sir Kasimir's remark, that her second son danced
better than the elder, but both must learn.

The remark displeased Ebbo.  In his isolated castle he knew no superior, and his nature might
yield willingly, but rebelled at being put down.  His brother was his perfect equal in all
mental and bodily attributes, but it was the absence of all self-assertion that made Ebbo so
often give him the preference; it was his mother's tender meekness in which lay her power with
him; and if he yielded to Gottfried Sorel's wisdom and experience, it was with the inward consciousness
of voluntary deference to one of lower rank.  But here was Wildschloss, of the same noble blood
with himself, his elder, his sponsor, his protector, with every right to direct him, so that
there was no choice between grateful docility and headstrong folly.  If the fellow had been
old, weak, or in any way inferior, it would have been more bearable; but he was a tried warrior,
a sage counsellor, in the prime vigour of manhood, and with a kindly reasonable authority to
which only a fool could fail to attend, and which for that very reason chafed Ebbo excessively.

Moreover there was the gipsy prophecy ever rankling in the lad's heart, and embittering to
him the sight of every civility from his kinsman to his mother.  Sir Kasimir lodged at a neighbouring
hostel; but he spent much time with his cousins, and tried to make them friends with his squire,
Count Rudiger.  A great offence to Ebbo was however the criticisms of both knight and squire
on the bearing of the young Barons in military exercises.  Truly, with no instructor but the
rough lanzknecht Heinz, they must, as Friedel said, have been born paladins to have equalled
youths whose life had been spent in chivalrous training.

"See us in a downright fight," said Ebbo; "we could strike as hard as any courtly minion."

"As hard, but scarce as dexterously," said Friedel, "and be called for our pains the wild mountaineers.
I heard the men-at-arms saying I sat my horse as though it were always going up or down a precipice;
and Master Schmidt went into his shop the other day shrugging his shoulders, and saying we
hailed one another across the market-place as if we thought Ulm was a mountain full of gemsbocks."

"Thou heardst! and didst not cast his insolence in his teeth?" cried Ebbo.

"How could I," laughed Friedel, "when the echo was casting back in my teeth my own shout to
thee?  I could only laugh with Rudiger."

"The chief delight I could have, next to getting home, would be to lay that fellow Rudiger
on his back in the tilt-yard," said Ebbo.

But, as Rudiger was by four years his senior, and very expert, the upshot of these encounters
was quite otherwise, and the young gentlemen were disabused of the notion that fighting came
by nature, and found that, if they desired success in a serious conflict, they must practise
diligently in the city tilt-yard, where young men were trained to arms.  The crossbow was the
only weapon with which they excelled; and, as shooting was a favourite exercise of the burghers,
their proficiency was not as exclusive as had seemed to Ebbo a baronial privilege.  Harquebuses
were novelties to them, and they despised them as burgher weapons, in spite of Sir Kasimir's
assurance that firearms were a great subject of study and interest to the King of the Romans.
The name of this personage was, it may be feared, highly distasteful to the Freiherr von Adlerstein,
both as Wildschloss's model of knightly perfection, and as one who claimed submission from
his haughty spirit.  When Sir Kasimir spoke to him on the subject of giving his allegiance,
he stiffly replied, "Sir, that is a question for ripe consideration."

"It is the question," said Wildschloss, rather more lightly than agreed with the Baron's dignity,
"whether you like to have your castle pulled down about your ears."

"That has never happened yet to Adlerstein!" said Ebbo, proudly.

"No, because since the days of the Hohenstaufen there has been neither rule nor union in the
empire.  But times are changing fast, my Junker, and within the last ten years forty castles
such as yours have been consumed by the Swabian League, as though they were so many walnuts."

"The shell of Adlerstein was too hard for them, though.  They never tried."

"And wherefore, friend Eberhard?  It was because I represented to the Kaiser and the Graf von
Wurtemberg that little profit and no glory would accrue from attacking a crag full of women
and babes, and that I, having the honour to be your next heir, should prefer having the castle
untouched, and under the peace of the empire, so long as that peace was kept.  When you should
come to years of discretion, then it would be for you to carry out the intention wherewith
your father and grandfather left home."

"Then we have been protected by the peace of the empire all this time?" said Friedel, while
Ebbo looked as if the notion were hard of digestion.

"Even so; and, had you not freely and nobly released your Genoese merchant, it had gone hard
with Adlerstein."

"Could Adlerstein be taken?" demanded Ebbo triumphantly.

"Your grandmother thought not," said Sir Kasimir, with a shade of irony in his tone.  "It would
be a troublesome siege; but the League numbers 1,500 horse, and 9,000 foot, and, with Schlangenwald's
concurrence, you would be assuredly starved out."

Ebbo was so much the more stimulated to take his chance, and do nothing on compulsion; but
Friedel put in the question to what the oaths would bind them.

"Only to aid the Emperor with sword and counsel in field or Diet, and thereby win fame and
honour such as can scarce be gained by carrying prey to yon eagle roost."

"One may preserve one's independence without robbery," said Ebbo coldly.

"Nay, lad:  did you ever hear of a wolf that could live without marauding?  Or if he tried,
would he get credit for so doing?"

"After all," said Friedel, "does not the present agreement hold till we are of age?  I suppose
the Swabian League would attempt nothing against minors, unless we break the peace?"

"Probably not; I will do my utmost to give the Freiherr there time to grow beyond his grandmother's
maxims," said Wildschloss.  "If Schlangenwald do not meddle in the matter, he may have the
next five years to decide whether Adlerstein can hold out against all Germany."

"Freiherr Kasimir von Adlerstein Wildschloss," said Eberhard, turning solemnly on him, "I do
you to wit once for all that threats will not serve with me.  If I submit, it will be because
I am convinced it is right.  Otherwise we had rather both be buried in the ruins of our castle,
as its last free lords."

"So!" said the provoking kinsman; "such burials look grim when the time comes, but happily
it is not coming yet!"

Meantime, as Ebbo said to Friedel, how much might happen--a disruption of the empire, a crusade
against the Turks, a war in Italy, some grand means of making the Diet value the sword of a
free baron, without chaining him down to gratify the greed of hungry Austria.  If only Wildschloss
could be shaken off!  But he only became constantly more friendly and intrusive, almost paternal.
No wonder, when the mother and her uncle made him so welcome, and were so intolerably grateful
for his impertinent interference, while even Friedel confessed the reasonableness of his counsels,
as if that were not the very sting of them.

He even asked leave to bring his little daughter Thekla from her convent to see the Lady of
Adlerstein.  She was a pretty, flaxen- haired maiden of five years old, in a round cap, and
long narrow frock, with a little cross at the neck.  She had never seen any one beyond the
walls of the nunnery; and, when her father took her from the lay sister's arms, and carried
her to the gallery, where sat Hausfrau Johanna, in dark green, slashed with cherry colour,
Master Gottfried, in sober crimson, with gold medal and chain, Freiherrinn Christina, in silver-broidered
black, and the two Junkern stood near in the shining mail in which they were going to the tilt
yard, she turned her head in terror, struggled with her scarce known father, and shrieked for
Sister Grethel.

"It was all too sheen," she sobbed, in the lay sister's arms; "she did not want to be in Paradise
yet, among the saints!  O! take her back!  The two bright, holy Michaels would let her go,
for indeed she had made but one mistake in her Ave."

Vain was the attempt to make her lift her face from the black serge shoulder where she had
hidden it.  Sister Grethel coaxed and scolded, Sir Kasimir reproved, the housemother offered
comfits, and Christina's soft voice was worst of all, for the child, probably taking her for
Our Lady herself, began to gasp forth a general confession.  "I will never do so again!  Yes,
it was a fib, but Mother Hildegard gave me a bit of marchpane not to tell--"  Here the lay
sister took strong measures for closing the little mouth, and Christina drew back, recommending
that the child should be left gradually to discover their terrestrial nature.  Ebbo had looked
on with extreme disgust, trying to hurry Friedel, who had delayed to trace some lines for his
mother on her broidery pattern.  In passing the step where Grethel sat with Thekla on her lap,
the clank of their armour caused the uplifting of the little flaxen head, and two wide blue
eyes looked over Grethel's shoulder, and met Friedel's sunny glance.  He smiled; she laughed
back again.  He held out his arms, and, though his hands were gauntleted, she let him lift
her up, and curiously smoothed and patted his cheek, as if he had been a strange animal.

"You have no wings," she said.  "Are you St. George, or St. Michael?"

"Neither the one nor the other, pretty one.  Only your poor cousin Friedel von Adlerstein,
and here is Ebbo, my brother."

It was not in Ebbo's nature not to smile encouragement at the fair little face, with its wistful
look.  He drew off his glove to caress her silken hair, and for a few minutes she was played
with by the two brothers like a newly-invented toy, receiving their attentions with pretty
half-frightened graciousness, until Count Rudiger hastened in to summon them, and Friedel placed
her on his mother's knee, where she speedily became perfectly happy, and at ease.

Her extreme delight, when towards evening the Junkern returned, was flattering even to Ebbo;
and, when it was time for her to be taken home, she made strong resistance, clinging fast to
Christina, with screams and struggles.  To the lady's promise of coming to see her she replied,
"Friedel and Ebbo, too," and, receiving no response to this request, she burst out, "Then I
won't come!  I am the Freiherrinn Thekla, the heiress of Adlerstein Wildschloss and Felsenbach.
I won't be a nun.  I'll be married!  You shall be my husband," and she made a dart at the nearest
youth, who happened to be Ebbo.

"Ay, ay, you shall have him.  He will come for you, sweetest Fraulein," said the perplexed
Grethel, "so only you will come home! Nobody will come for you if you are naughty."

"Will you come if I am good?" said the spoilt cloister pet, clinging tight to Ebbo.

"Yes," said her father, as she still resisted, "come back, my child, and one day shall you
see Ebbo, and have him for a brother."

Thereat Ebbo shook off the little grasping fingers, almost as if they had belonged to a noxious
insect.

"The matron's coif should succeed the widow's veil."  He might talk with scholarly contempt
of the new race of Bohemian impostors; but there was no forgetting that sentence.  And in like
manner, though his grandmother's allegation that his mother had been bent on captivating Sir
Kasimir in that single interview at Adlerstein, had always seemed to him the most preposterous
of all Kunigunde's forms of outrage, the recollection would recur to him; and he could have
found it in his heart to wish that his mother had never heard of the old lady's designs as
to the oubliette.  He did most sincerely wish Master Gottfried had never let Wildschloss know
of the mode in which his life had been saved.  Yet, while it would have seemed to him profane
to breathe even to Friedel the true secret of his repugnance to this meddlesome kinsman, it
was absolutely impossible to avoid his most distasteful authority and patronage.

And the mother herself was gently, thankfully happy and unsuspicious, basking in the tender
home affection of which she had so long been deprived, proud of her sons, and, though anxious
as to Ebbo's decision, with a quiet trust in his foundation of principle, and above all trusting
to prayer.

CHAPTER XIV:  THE DOUBLE-HEADED EAGLE

One summer evening, when shooting at a bird on a pole was in full exercise in the tilt-yard,
the sports were interrupted by a message from the Provost that a harbinger had brought tidings
that the Imperial court was within a day's journey.

All was preparation.  Fresh sand had to be strewn on the arena.  New tapestry hangings were
to deck the galleries, the houses and balconies to be brave with drapery, the fountain in the
market-place was to play Rhine wine, all Ulm was astir to do honour to itself and to the Kaisar,
and Ebbo stood amid all the bustle, drawing lines in the sand with the stock of his arblast,
subject to all that oppressive self-magnification so frequent in early youth, and which made
it seem to him as if the Kaisar and the King of the Romans were coming to Ulm with the mere
purpose of destroying his independence, and as if the eyes of all Germany were watching for
his humiliation.

"See! see!" suddenly exclaimed Friedel; "look! there is something among the tracery of the
Dome Kirk Tower.  Is it man or bird?"

"Bird, folly!  Thou couldst see no bird less than an eagle from hence," said Ebbo.  "No doubt
they are about to hoist a banner."

"That is not their wont," returned Sir Kasimir.

"I see him," interrupted Ebbo.  "Nay, but he is a bold climber!  We went up to that stage,
close to the balcony, but there's no footing beyond but crockets and canopies."

"And a bit of rotten scaffold," added Friedel.  "Perhaps he is a builder going to examine it!
Up higher, higher!"

"A builder!" said Ebbo; "a man with a head and foot like that should be a chamois hunter! 
Shouldst thou deem it worse than the Red Eyrie, Friedel?"

"Yea, truly!  The depth beneath is plainer!  There would be no climbing there without--"

"Without what, cousin?" asked Wildschloss.

"Without great cause," said Friedel.  "It is fearful!  He is like a fly against the sky."

"Beaten again!" muttered Ebbo; "I did think that none of these town- bred fellows could surpass
us when it came to a giddy height!  Who can he be?"

"Look! look!" burst out Friedel.  "The saints protect him!  He is on that narrowest topmost
ledge--measuring; his heel is over the parapet--half his foot!"

"Holding on by the rotten scaffold pole!  St. Barbara be his speed; but he is a brave man!"
shouted Ebbo.  "Oh! the pole has broken."

"Heaven forefend!" cried Wildschloss, with despair on his face unseen by the boys, for Friedel
had hidden his eyes, and Ebbo was straining his with the intense gaze of horror.  He had carried
his glance downwards, following the 380 feet fall that must be the lot of the adventurer. 
Then looking up again he shouted, "I see him!  I see him!  Praise to St. Barbara!  He is safe!
He has caught by the upright stone work."

"Where? where?  Show me!" cried Wildschloss, grasping Ebbo's arm.

"There! clinging to that upright bit of tracery, stretching his foot out to yonder crocket."

"I cannot see.  Mine eyes swim and dazzle," said Wildschloss. "Merciful heavens! is this another
tempting of Providence?  How is it with him now, Ebbo?"

"Swarming down another slender bit of the stone network.  It must be easy now to one who could
keep head and hand steady in such a shock."

"There!" added Friedel, after a breathless space, "he is on the lower parapet, whence begins
the stair.  Do you know him, sir?  Who is he?"

"Either a Venetian mountebank," said Wildschloss, "or else there is only one man I know of
either so foolhardy or so steady of head."

"Be he who he may," said Ebbo, "he is the bravest man that ever I beheld.  Who is he, Sir Kasimir?"

"An eagle of higher flight than ours, no doubt," said Wildschloss. "But come; we shall reach
the Dome Kirk by the time the climber has wound his way down the turret stairs, and we shall
see what like he is."

Their coming was well timed, for a small door at the foot of the tower was just opening to
give exit to a very tall knight, in one of those short Spanish cloaks the collar of which could
be raised so as to conceal the face.  He looked to the right and left, and had one hand raised
to put up the collar when he recognized Sir Kasimir, and, holding out both hands, exclaimed,
"Ha, Adlerstein! well met!  I looked to see thee here.  No unbonneting; I am not come yet.
I am at Strasburg, with the Kaisar and the Archduke, and am not here till we ride in, in purple
and in pall by the time the good folk have hung out their arras, and donned their gold chains,
and conned their speeches, and mounted their mules."

"Well that their speeches are not over the lykewake of his kingly kaisarly highness," gravely
returned Sir Kasimir.

"Ha!  Thou sawest?  I came out here to avoid the gaping throng, who don't know what a hunter
can do.  I have been in worse case in the Tyrol.  Snowdrifts are worse footing than stone vine
leaves."

"Where abides your highness?" asked Wildschloss.

"I ride back again to the halting-place for the night, and meet my father in time to do my
part in the pageant.  I was sick of the addresses, and, moreover, the purse-proud Flemings
have made such a stiff little fop of my poor boy that I am ashamed to look at him, or hear
his French accent.  So I rode off to get a view of this notable Dom in peace, ere it be bedizened
in holiday garb; and one can't stir without all the Chapter waddling after one."

"Your highness has found means of distancing them."

"Why, truly, the Prior would scarce delight in the view from yonder parapet," laughed his highness.
"Ha!  Adlerstein, where didst get such a perfect pair of pages?  I would I could match my hounds
as well."

"They are no pages of mine, so please you," said the knight; "rather this is the head of my
name.  Let me present to your kingly highness the Freiherr von Adlerstein."

"Thou dost not thyself distinguish between them!" said Maximilian, as Friedmund stepped back,
putting forward Eberhard, whose bright, lively smile of interest and admiration had been the
cause of his cousin's mistake.  They would have doffed their caps and bent the knee, but were
hastily checked by Maximilian.  "No, no, Junkern, I shall owe you no thanks for bringing all
the street on me!--that's enough.  Reserve the rest for Kaisar Fritz."  Then, familiarly taking
Sir Kasimir's arm, he walked on, saying, "I remember now.  Thou wentest after an inheritance
from the old Mouser of the Debateable Ford, and wert ousted by a couple of lusty boys sprung
of a peasant wedlock."

"Nay, my lord, of a burgher lady, fair as she is wise and virtuous; who, spite of all hindrances,
has bred up these youths in all good and noble nurture."

"Is this so?" said the king, turning sharp round on the twins.  "Are ye minded to quit freebooting,
and come a crusading against the Turks with me?"

"Everywhere with such a leader!" enthusiastically exclaimed Ebbo.

"'What? up there?" said Maximilian, smiling.  "Thou hast the tread of a chamois-hunter."

"Friedel has been on the Red Eyrie," exclaimed Ebbo; then, thinking he had spoken foolishly,
he coloured.

"Which is the Red Eyrie?" good-humouredly asked the king.

"It is the crag above our castle," said Friedel, modestly.

"None other has been there," added Ebbo, perceiving his auditor's interest; "but he saw the
eagle flying away with a poor widow's kid, and the sight must have given him wings, for we
never could find the same path; but here is one of the feathers he brought down"--taking off
his cap so as to show a feather rather the worse for wear, and sheltered behind a fresher one.

"Nay," said Friedel, "thou shouldst say that I came to a ledge where I had like to have stayed
all night, but that ye all came out with men and ropes."

"We know what such a case is!" said the king.  "It has chanced to us to hang between heaven
and earth; I've even had the Holy Sacrament held up for my last pious gaze by those who gave
me up for lost on the mountain-side.  Adlerstein?  The peak above the Braunwasser? Some day
shall ye show me this eyrie of yours, and we will see whether we can amaze our cousins the
eagles.  We see you at our father's court to-morrow?" he graciously added, and Ebbo gave a
ready bow of acquiescence.

"There," said the king, as after their dismissal he walked on with Sir Kasimir, "never blame
me for rashness and imprudence.  Here has this height of the steeple proved the height of policy.
It has made a loyal subject of a Mouser on the spot."

"Pray Heaven it may have won a heart, true though proud!" said Wildschloss; "but mousing was
cured before by the wise training of the mother.  Your highness will have taken out the sting
of submission, and you will scarce find more faithful subjects."

"How old are the Junkern?"

"Some sixteen years, your highness."

"That is what living among mountains does for a lad.  Why could not those thrice-accursed Flemish
towns let me breed up my boy to be good for something in the mountains, instead of getting
duck-footed and muddy-witted in the fens?"

In the meantime Ebbo and Friedel were returning home in that sort of passion of enthusiasm
that ingenuous boyhood feels when first brought into contact with greatness or brilliant qualities.

And brilliance was the striking point in Maximilian.  The Last of the Knights, in spite of
his many defects, was, by personal qualities, and the hereditary influence of long-descended
rank, verily a king of men in aspect and demeanour, even when most careless and simple.  He
was at this time a year or two past thirty, unusually tall, and with a form at once majestic
and full of vigour and activity; a noble, fair, though sunburnt countenance; eyes of dark gray,
almost black; long fair hair, a keen aquiline nose, a lip only beginning to lengthen to the
characteristic Austrian feature, an expression always lofty, sometimes dreamy, and yet at the
same time full of acuteness and humour.  His abilities were of the highest order, his purposes,
especially at this period of his life, most noble and becoming in the first prince of Christendom;
and, if his life were a failure, and his reputation unworthy of his endowments, the cause seems
to have been in great measure the bewilderment and confusion that unusual gifts sometimes cause
to their possessor, whose sight their conflicting illumination dazzles so as to impair his
steadiness of aim, while their contending gleams light him into various directions, so that
one object is deserted for another ere its completion.  Thus Maximilian cuts a figure in history
far inferior to that made by his grandson, Charles V., whom he nevertheless excelled in every
personal quality, except the most needful of all, force of character; and, in like manner,
his remote descendant, the narrow-minded Ferdinand of Styria, gained his ends, though the able
and brilliant Joseph II. was to die broken-hearted, calling his reign a failure and mistake.
However, such terms as these could not be applied to Maximilian with regard to home affairs.
He has had hard measure from those who have only regarded his vacillating foreign policy, especially
with respect to Italy--ever the temptation and the bane of Austria; but even here much of his
uncertain conduct was owing to the unfulfilled promises of what he himself called his "realm
of kings," and a sovereign can only justly be estimated by his domestic policy.  The contrast
of the empire before his time with the subsequent Germany is that of chaos with order.  Since
the death of Friedrich II. the Imperial title had been a mockery, making the prince who chanced
to bear it a mere mark for the spite of his rivals; there was no centre of justice, no appeal;
everybody might make war on everybody, with the sole preliminary of exchanging a challenge;
"fist-right" was the acknowledged law of the land; and, except in the free cities, and under
such a happy accident as a right-minded prince here and there, the state of Germany seems to
have been rather worse than that of Scotland from Bruce to the union of the Crowns.  Under
Maximilian, the Diet became an effective council, fist-right was abolished, independent robber-lords
put down, civilization began to effect an entrance, the system of circles was arranged, and
the empire again became a leading power in Europe, instead of a mere vortex of disorder and
misrule.  Never would Charles V. have held the position he occupied had he come after an ordinary
man, instead of after an able and sagacious reformer like that Maximilian who is popularly
regarded as a fantastic caricature of a knight-errant, marred by avarice and weakness of purpose.

At the juncture of which we are writing, none of Maximilian's less worthy qualities had appeared;
he had not been rendered shifty and unscrupulous by difficulties and disappointments in money
matters, and had not found it impossible to keep many of the promises he had given in all good
faith.  He stood forth as the hope of Germany, in salient contrast to the feeble and avaricious
father, who was felt to be the only obstacle in the way of his noble designs of establishing
peace and good discipline in the empire, and conducting a general crusade against the Turks,
whose progress was the most threatening peril of Christendom.  His fame was, of course, frequently
discussed among the citizens, with whom he was very popular, not only from his ease and freedom
of manner, but because his graceful tastes, his love of painting, sculpture, architecture,
and the mechanical turn which made him an improver of fire-arms and a patron of painting and
engraving, rendered their society more agreeable to him than that of his dull, barbarous nobility.
Ebbo had heard so much of the perfections of the King of the Romans as to be prepared to hate
him; but the boy, as we have seen, was of a generous, sensitive nature, peculiarly prone to
enthusiastic impressions of veneration; and Maximilian's high-spirited manhood, personal fascination,
and individual kindness had so entirely taken him by surprise, that he talked of him all the
evening in a more fervid manner than did even Friedel, though both could scarcely rest for
their anticipations of seeing him on the morrow in the full state of his entry.

Richly clad, and mounted on cream-coloured steeds, nearly as much alike as themselves, the
twins were a pleasant sight for a proud mother's eyes, as they rode out to take their place
in the procession that was to welcome the royal guests.  Master Sorel, in ample gown, richly
furred, with medal and chain of office, likewise went forth as Guildmaster; and Christina,
with smiling lips and liquid eyes, recollected the days when to see him in such array was her
keenest pleasure, and the utmost splendour her fancy could depict.

Arrayed, as her sons loved to see her, in black velvet, and with pearl-bordered cap, Christina
sat by her aunt in the tapestried balcony, and between them stood or sat little Thekla von
Adlerstein Wildschloss, whose father had entrusted her to their care, to see the procession
pass by.  A rich Eastern carpet, of gorgeous colouring, covered the upper balustrade, over
which they leant, in somewhat close quarters with the scarlet-bodiced dames of the opposite
house, but with ample space for sight up and down the rows of smiling expectants at each balcony,
or window, equally gay with hangings, while the bells of all the churches clashed forth their
gayest chimes, and fitful bursts of music were borne upon the breeze. Little Thekla danced
in the narrow space for very glee, and wondered why any one should live in a cloister when
the world was so wide and so fair.  And Dame Johanna tried to say something pious of worldly
temptations, and the cloister shelter; but Thekla interrupted her, and, clinging to Christina,
exclaimed, "Nay, but I am always naughty with Mother Ludmilla in the convent, and I know I
should never be naughty out here with you and the barons; I should be so happy."

"Hush! hush! little one; here they come!"

On they came--stout lanzknechts first, the city guard with steel helmets unadorned, buff suits,
and bearing either harquebuses, halberts, or those handsome but terrible weapons, morning stars.
Then followed guild after guild, each preceded by the banner bearing its homely emblem--the
cauldron of the smiths, the hose of the clothiers, the helmet of the armourers, the bason of
the barbers, the boot of the sutors; even the sausage of the cooks, and the shoe of the shoeblacks,
were re-presented, as by men who gloried in the calling in which they did life's duty and task.

First in each of these bands marched the prentices, stout, broad, flat-faced lads, from twenty
to fourteen years of age, with hair like tow hanging from under their blue caps, staves in
their hands, and knives at their girdles.  Behind them came the journeymen, in leathern jerkins
and steel caps, and armed with halberts or cross- bows; men of all ages, from sixty to one
or two and twenty, and many of the younger ones with foreign countenances and garb betokening
that they were strangers spending part of their wandering years in studying the Ulm fashions
of their craft.  Each trade showed a large array of these juniors; but the masters who came
behind were comparatively few, mostly elderly, long-gowned, gold-chained personages, with a
weight of solid dignity on their wise brows--men who respected themselves, made others respect
them, and kept their city a peaceful, well-ordered haven, while storms raged in the realm beyond--men
too who had raised to the glory of their God a temple, not indeed fulfilling the original design,
but a noble effort, and grand monument of burgher devotion.

Then came the ragged regiment of scholars, wild lads from every part of Germany and Switzerland,
some wan and pinched with hardship and privation, others sturdy, selfish rogues, evidently
well able to take care of themselves.  There were many rude, tyrannical-looking lads among
the older lads; and, though here and there a studious, earnest face might be remarked, the
prospect of Germany's future priests and teachers was not encouraging.  And what a searching
ordeal was awaiting those careless lads when the voice of one, as yet still a student, should
ring through Germany!

Contrasting with these ill-kempt pupils marched the grave professors and teachers, in square
ecclesiastic caps and long gowns, whose colours marked their degrees and the Universities that
had conferred them--some thin, some portly, some jocund, others dreamy; some observing all
the humours around, others still intent on Aristotelian ethics; all men of high fame, with
doctor at the beginning of their names, and "or" or "us" at the close of them.  After them
rode the magistracy, a burgomaster from each guild, and the Herr Provost himself--as great
a potentate within his own walls as the Doge of Venice or of Genoa, or perhaps greater, because
less jealously hampered.  In this dignified group was Uncle Gottfried, by complacent nod and
smile acknowledging his good wife and niece, who indeed had received many a previous glance
and bow from friends passing beneath. But Master Sorel was no new spectacle in a civic procession,
and the sight of him was only a pleasant fillip to the excitement of his ladies.

Here was jingling of spurs and trampling of horses; heraldic achievements showed upon the banners,
round which rode the mail-clad retainers of country nobles who had mustered to meet their lords.
Then, with still more of clank and tramp, rode a bright-faced troop of lads, with feathered
caps and gay mantles.  Young Count Rudiger looked up with courteous salutation; and just behind
him, with smiling lips and upraised faces, were the pair whose dark eyes, dark hair, and slender
forms rendered them conspicuous among the fair Teutonic youth.  Each cap was taken off and
waved, and each pair of lustrous eyes glanced up pleasure and exultation at the sight of the
lovely "Mutterlein."  And she?  The pageant was well-nigh over to her, save for heartily agreeing
with Aunt Johanna that there was not a young noble of them all to compare with the twin Barons
of Adlerstein!  However, she knew she should be called to account if she did not look well
at "the Romish King;" besides, Thekla was shrieking with delight at the sight of her father,
tall and splendid on his mighty black charger, with a smile for his child, and for the lady
a bow so low and deferential that it was evidently remarked by those at whose approach every
lady in the balconies was rising, every head in the street was bared.

A tall, thin, shrivelled, but exceedingly stately old man on a gray horse was in the centre.
Clad in a purple velvet mantle, and bowing as he went, he looked truly the Kaisar, to whom
stately courtesy was second nature.  On one side, in black and gold, with the jewel of the
Golden Fleece on his breast, rode Maximilian, responding gracefully to the salutations of the
people, but his keen gray eye roving in search of the object of Sir Kasimir's salute, and lighting
on Christina with such a rapid, amused glance of discovery that, in her confusion, she missed
what excited Dame Johanna's rapturous admiration--the handsome boy on the Emperor's other side,
a fair, plump lad, the young sovereign of the Low Countries, beautiful in feature and complexion,
but lacking the fire and the loftiness that characterized his father's countenance.  The train
was closed by the Reitern of the Emperor's guard--steel-clad mercenaries who were looked on
with no friendly eyes by the few gazers in the street who had been left behind in the general
rush to keep up with the attractive part of the show.

Pageants of elaborate mythological character impeded the imperial progress at every stage,
and it was full two hours ere the two youths returned, heartily weary of the lengthened ceremonial,
and laughing at having actually seen the King of the Romans enduring to be conducted from shrine
to shrine in the cathedral by a large proportion of its dignitaries.  Ebbo was sure he had
caught an archly disconsolate wink!

Ebbo had to dress for the banquet spread in the town-hall.  Space was wanting for the concourse
of guests, and Master Sorel had decided that the younger Baron should not be included in the
invitation. Friedel pardoned him more easily than did Ebbo, who not only resented any slight
to his double, but in his fits of shy pride needed the aid of his readier and brighter other
self.  But it might not be, and Sir Kasimir and Master Gottfried alone accompanied him, hoping
that he would not look as wild as a hawk, and would do nothing to diminish the favourable impression
he had made on the King of the Romans.

Late, according to mediaeval hours, was the return, and Ebbo spoke in a tone of elation.  "The
Kaisar was most gracious, and the king knew me," he said, "and asked for thee, Friedel, saying
one of us was nought without the other.  But thou wilt go to-morrow, for we are to receive
knighthood."

"Already!" exclaimed Friedel, a bright glow rushing to his cheek.

"Yea," said Ebbo.  "The Romish king said somewhat about waiting to win our spurs; but the Kaisar
said I was in a position to take rank as a knight, and I thanked him, so thou shouldst share
the honour."

"The Kaisar," said Wildschloss, "is not the man to let a knight's fee slip between his fingers.
The king would have kept off their grip, and reserved you for knighthood from his own sword
under the banner of the empire; but there is no help for it now, and you must make your vassals
send in their dues."

"My vassals?" said Ebbo; "what could they send?"

"The aid customary on the knighthood of the heir."

"But there is--there is nothing!" said Friedel.  "They can scarce pay meal and poultry enough
for our daily fare; and if we were to flay them alive, we should not get sixty groschen from
the whole."

"True enough!  Knighthood must wait till we win it," said Ebbo, gloomily.

"Nay, it is accepted," said Wildschloss.  "The Kaisar loves his iron chest too well to let
you go back.  You must be ready with your round sum to the chancellor, and your spur-money
and your fee to the heralds, and largess to the crowd."

"Mother, the dowry," said Ebbo.

"At your service, my son," said Christina, anxious to chase the cloud from his brow.

But it was a deep haul, for the avaricious Friedrich IV. made exorbitant charges for the knighting
his young nobles; and Ebbo soon saw that the improvements at home must suffer for the honours
that would have been so much better won than bought.

"If your vassals cannot aid, yet may not your kinsman--?" began Wildschloss.

"No!" interrupted Ebbo, lashed up to hot indignation.  "No, sir! Rather will my mother, brother,
and I ride back this very night to unfettered liberty on our mountain, without obligation to
any living man."

"Less hotly, Sir Baron," said Master Gottfried, gravely.  "You broke in on your noble godfather,
and you had not heard me speak.  You and your brother are the old man's only heirs, nor do
ye incur any obligation that need fret you by forestalling what would be your just right. 
I will see my nephews as well equipped as any young baron of them."

The mother looked anxiously at Ebbo.  He bent his head with rising colour, and said, "Thanks,
kind uncle.  From YOU I have learnt to look on goodness as fatherly."

"Only," added Friedel, "if the Baron's station renders knighthood fitting for him, surely I
might remain his esquire."

"Never, Friedel!" cried his brother.  "Without thee, nothing."

"Well said, Freiherr," said Master Sorel; "what becomes the one becomes the other.  I would
not have thee left out, my Friedel, since I cannot leave thee the mysteries of my craft."

"To-morrow!" said Friedel, gravely.  "Then must the vigil be kept to- night."

"The boy thinks these are the days of Roland and Karl the Great," said Wildschloss.  "He would
fain watch his arms in the moonlight in the Dome Kirk!  Alas! no, my Friedel!  Knighthood in
these days smacks more of bezants than of deeds of prowess."

"Unbearable fellow!" cried Ebbo, when he had latched the door of the room he shared with his
brother.  "First, holding up my inexperience to scorn!  As though the Kaisar knew not better
than he what befits me!  Then trying to buy my silence and my mother's gratitude with his hateful
advance of gold.  As if I did not loathe him enough without! If I pay my homage, and sign the
League to-morrow, it will be purely that he may not plume himself on our holding our own by
sufferance, in deference to him."

"You will sign it--you will do homage!" exclaimed Friedel.  "How rejoiced the mother will be."

"I had rather depend at once--if depend I must--on yonder dignified Kaisar and that noble king
than on our meddling kinsman," said Ebbo. "I shall be his equal now!  Ay, and no more classed
with the court Junkern I was with to-day.  The dullards!  No one reasonable thing know they
but the chase.  One had been at Florence; and when I asked him of the Baptistery and rare Giotto
of whom my uncle told us, he asked if he were a knight of the Medici.  All he knew was that
there were ortolans at Ser Lorenzo's table; and he and the rest of them talked over wines as
many and as hard to call as the roll of AEneas's comrades; and when each one must drink to
her he loved best, and I said I loved none like my sweet mother, they gibed me for a simple
dutiful mountaineer.  Yea, and when the servants brought a bowl, I thought it was a wholesome
draught of spring water after all their hot wines and fripperies.  Pah!"

"The rose-water, Ebbo!  No wonder they laughed!  Why, the bowls for our fingers came round
at the banquet here."

"Ah! thou hast eyes for their finikin manners!  Yet what know they of what we used to long
for in polished life!  Not one but vowed he abhorred books, and cursed Dr. Faustus for multiplying
them.  I may not know the taste of a stew, nor the fit of a glove, as they do, but I trust
I bear a less empty brain.  And the young Netherlanders that came with the Archduke were worst
of all.  They got together and gabbled French, and treated the German Junkern with the very
same sauce with which they had served me.  The Archduke laughed with them, and when the Provost
addressed him, made as if he understood not, till his father heard, and thundered out, 'How
now, Philip!  Deaf on thy German ear?  I tell thee, Herr Probst, he knows his own tongue as
well as thou or I, and thou shalt hear him speak as becomes the son of an Austrian hunter.'
That Romish king is a knight of knights, Friedel.  I could follow him to the world's end. 
I wonder whether he will ever come to climb the Red Eyrie."

"It does not seem the world's end when one is there," said Friedel, with strange yearnings
in his breast.

"Even the Dom steeple never rose to its full height," he added, standing in the window, and
gazing pensively into the summer sky. "Oh, Ebbo! this knighthood has come very suddenly after
our many dreams; and, even though its outward tokens be lowered, it is still a holy, awful thing."

Nurtured in mountain solitude, on romance transmitted through the pure medium of his mother's
mind, and his spirit untainted by contact with the world, Friedmund von Adlerstein looked on
chivalry with the temper of a Percival or Galahad, and regarded it with a sacred awe. Eberhard,
though treating it more as a matter of business, was like enough to his brother to enter into
the force of the vows they were about to make; and if the young Barons of Adlerstein did not
perform the night-watch over their armour, yet they kept a vigil that impressed their own minds
as deeply, and in early morn they went to confession and mass ere the gay parts of the city
were astir.

"Sweet niece," said Master Sorel, as he saw the brothers' grave, earnest looks, "thou hast
done well by these youths; yet I doubt me at times whether they be not too much lifted out
of this veritable world of ours."

"Ah, fair uncle, were they not above it, how could they face its temptations?"

"True, my child; but how will it be when they find how lightly others treat what to them is
so solemn?"

"There must be temptations for them, above all for Ebbo," said Christina, "but still, when
I remember how my heart sank when their grandmother tried to bring them up to love crime as
sport and glory, I cannot but trust that the good work will be wrought out, and my dream fulfilled,
that they may be lights on earth and stars in heaven.  Even this matter of homage, that seemed
so hard to my Ebbo, has now been made easy to him by his veneration for the Emperor."

It was even so.  If the sense that he was the last veritable FREE lord of Adlerstein rushed
over Ebbo, he was, on the other hand, overmastered by the kingliness of Friedrich and Maximilian,
and was aware that this submission, while depriving him of little or no actual power, brought
him into relations with the civilized world, and opened to him paths of true honour.  So the
ceremonies were gone through, his oath of allegiance was made, investiture was granted to him
by the delivery of a sword, and both he and Friedel were dubbed knights.  Then they shared
another banquet, where, as away from the Junkern and among elder men, Ebbo was happier than
the day before. Some of the knights seemed to him as rude and ignorant as the Schneiderlein,
but no one talked to him nor observed his manners, and he could listen to conversation on war
and policy such as interested him far more than the subjects affected by youths a little older
than himself.  Their lonely life and training had rendered the minds of the brothers as much
in advance of their fellows as they were behind them in knowledge of the world.

The crass obtuseness of most of the nobility made it a relief to return to the usual habits
of the Sorel household when the court had left Ulm.  Friedmund, anxious to prove that his new
honours were not to alter his home demeanour, was drawing on a block of wood from a tinted
pen-and-ink sketch; Ebbo was deeply engaged with a newly- acquired copy of Virgil; and their
mother was embroidering some draperies for the long-neglected castle chapel,--all sitting,
as Master Gottfried loved to have them, in his studio, whence he had a few moments before been
called away, when, as the door slowly opened, a voice was heard that made both lads start and rise.

"Yea, truly, Herr Guildmaster, I would see these masterpieces.  Ha! What have you here for
masterpieces?  Our two new double-ganger knights?"  And Maximilian entered in a simple riding-dress,
attended by Master Gottfried, and by Sir Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss.

Christina would fain have slipped out unperceived, but the king was already removing his cap
from his fair curling locks, and bending his head as he said, "The Frau Freiherrinn von Adlerstein?
Fair lady, I greet you well, and thank you in the Kaisar's name and mine for having bred up
for us two true and loyal subjects."

"May they so prove themselves, my liege!" said Christina, bending low.

"And not only loyal-hearted," added Maximilian, smiling, "but ready- brained, which is less
frequent among our youth.  What is thy book, young knight?  Virgilius Maro?  Dost thou read
the Latin?" he added, in that tongue.

"Not as well as we wish, your kingly highness," readily answered Ebbo, in Latin, "having learnt
solely of our mother till we came hither."

"Never fear for that, my young blade," laughed the king.  "Knowst not that the wiseacres thought
me too dull for teaching till I was past ten years?  And what is thy double about?  Drawing
on wood?  How now! An able draughtsman, my young knight?"

"My nephew Sir Friedmund is good to the old man," said Gottfried, himself almost regretting
the lad's avocation.  "My eyes are failing me, and he is aiding me with the graving of this
border.  He has the knack that no teaching will impart to any of my present journeymen."

"Born, not made," quoth Maximilian.  "Nay," as Friedel coloured deeper at the sense that Ebbo
was ashamed of him, "no blushes, my boy; it is a rare gift.  I can make a hundred knights any
day, but the Almighty alone can make a genius.  It was this very matter of graving that led
me hither."

For Maximilian had a passion for composition, and chiefly for autobiography, and his head was
full of that curious performance, Der Weisse Konig, which occupied many of the leisure moments
of his life, being dictated to his former writing-master, Marcus Sauerwein.  He had already
designed the portrayal of his father as the old white king, and himself as the young white
king, in a series of woodcuts illustrating the narrative which culminated in the one romance
of his life, his brief happy marriage with Mary of Burgundy; and he continued eagerly to talk
to Master Gottfried about the mystery of graving, and the various scenes in which he wished
to depict himself learning languages from native speakers--Czech from a peasant with a basket
of eggs, English from the exiles at the Burgundian court, who had also taught him the use of
the longbow, building from architects and masons, painting from artists, and, more imaginatively,
astrology from a wonderful flaming sphere in the sky, and the black art from a witch inspired
by a long-tailed demon perched on her shoulder.  No doubt "the young white king" made an exceedingly
prominent figure in the discourse, but it was so quaint and so brilliant that it did not need
the charm of royal condescension to entrance the young knights, who stood silent auditors.
Ebbo at least was convinced that no species of knowledge or skill was viewed by his kaisarly
kingship as beneath his dignity; but still he feared Friedel's being seized upon to be as prime
illustrator to the royal autobiography--a lot to which, with all his devotion to Maximilian,
he could hardly have consigned his brother, in the certainty that the jeers of the ruder nobles
would pursue the craftsman baron.

However, for the present, Maximilian was keen enough to see that the boy's mechanical skill
was not as yet equal to his genius; so he only encouraged him to practise, adding that he heard
there was a rare lad, one Durer, at Nuremburg, whose productions were already wonderful.  "And
what is this?" he asked; "what is the daintily- carved group I see yonder?"

"Your highness means, 'The Dove in the Eagle's Nest,'" said Kasimir. "It is the work of my
young kinsmen, and their appropriate device."

"As well chosen as carved," said Maximilian, examining it.  "Well is it that a city dove should
now and then find her way to the eyrie. Some of my nobles would cut my throat for the heresy,
but I am safe here, eh, Sir Kasimir?  Fare ye well, ye dove-trained eaglets.  We will know
one another better when we bear the cross against the infidel."

The brothers kissed his hand, and he descended the steps from the hall door.  Ere he had gone
far, he turned round upon Sir Kasimir with a merry smile

"A very white and tender dove indeed, and one who might easily nestle in another eyrie, methinks."

"Deems your kingly highness that consent could be won?" asked Wildschloss

"From the Kaisar?  Pfui, man, thou knowst as well as I do the golden key to his consent.  So
thou wouldst risk thy luck again!  Thou hast no male heir."

"And I would fain give my child a mother who would deal well with her.  Nay, to say sooth,
that gentle, innocent face has dwelt with me for many years.  But for my pre-contract, I had
striven long ago to win her, and had been a happier man, mayhap.  And, now I have seen what
she has made of her sons, I feel I could scarce find her match among our nobility."

"Nor elsewhere," said the king; "and I honour thee for not being so besotted in our German
haughtiness as not to see that it is our free cities that make refined and discreet dames.
I give you good speed, Adlerstein; but, if I read aright the brow of one at least of these
young fellows, thou wilt scarce have a willing or obedient stepson.'

CHAPTER XV:  THE RIVAL EYRIE

Ebbo trusted that his kinsman of Wildschloss was safe gone with the Court, and his temper smoothed
and his spirits rose in proportion while preparations for a return to Adlerstein were being
completed-- preparations by which the burgher lady might hope to render the castle far more
habitable, not to say baronial, than it had ever been.

The lady herself felt thankful that her stay at Ulm had turned out well beyond all anticipations
in the excellent understanding between her uncle and her sons, and still more in Ebbo's full
submission and personal loyalty towards the imperial family.  The die was cast, and the first
step had been taken towards rendering the Adlerstein family the peaceful, honourable nobles
she had always longed to see them.

She was one afternoon assisting her aunt in some of the duties of her wirthschaft, when Master
Gottfried entered the apartment with an air of such extreme complacency that both turned round
amazed; the one exclaiming, "Surely funds have come in for finishing the spire!" the other,
"Have they appointed thee Provost for next year, house- father?"

"Neither the one nor the other," was the reply.  "But heard you not the horse's feet?  Here
has the Lord of Adlerstein Wildschloss been with me in full state, to make formal proposals
for the hand of our child, Christina."

"For Christina!" cried Hausfrau Johanna with delight; "truly that is well.  Truly our maiden
has done honour to her breeding.  A second nobleman demanding her--and one who should be able
richly to endow her!"

"And who will do so," said Master Gottfried.  "For morning gift he promises the farms and lands
of Grunau--rich both in forest and corn glebe.  Likewise, her dower shall be upon Wildschloss--where
the soil is of the richest pasture, and there are no less than three mills, whence the lord
obtains large rights of multure.  Moreover, the Castle was added to and furnished on his marriage
with the late baroness, and might serve a Kurfurst; and though the jewels of Freiherrinn Valeska
must be inherited by her daughter, yet there are many of higher price which have descended
from his own ancestresses, and which will all be hers."

"And what a wedding we will have!" exclaimed Johanna; "it shall be truly baronial.  I will
take my hood and go at once to neighbour Sophie Lemsberg, who was wife to the Markgraf's Under
Keller-Meister. She will tell me point device the ceremonies befitting the espousals of a baron's
widow."

Poor Christina had sat all this time with drooping head and clasped hands, a tear stealing
down as the formal terms of the treaty sent her spirit back to the urgent, pleading, imperious
voice that had said, "Now, little one, thou wilt not shut me out;" and as she glanced at the
ring that had lain on that broad palm, she felt as if her sixteen cheerful years had been an
injury to her husband in his nameless bloody grave.  But protection was so needful in those
rude ages, and second marriages so frequent, that reluctance was counted as weakness.  She
knew her uncle and aunt would never believe that aught but compulsion had bound her to the
rude outlaw, and her habit of submission was so strong that, only when her aunt was actually
rising to go and consult her gossip, she found breath to falter,

"Hold, dear aunt--my sons--"

"Nay, child, it is the best thing thou couldst do for them.  Wonders hast thou wrought, yet
are they too old to be without fatherly authority.  I speak not of Friedel; the lad is gentle
and pious, though spirited, but for the baron.  The very eye and temper of my poor brother
Hugh--thy father, Stine--are alive again in him.  Yea, I love the lad the better for it, while
I fear.  He minds me precisely of Hugh ere he was 'prenticed to the weapon-smith, and all became
bitterness."

"Ah, truly," said Christina, raising her eyes "all would become bitterness with my Ebbo were
I to give a father's power to one whom he would not love."

"Then were he sullen and unruly, indeed!" said the old burgomaster with displeasure; "none
have shown him more kindness, none could better aid him in court and empire.  The lad has never
had restraint enough.  I blame thee not, child, but he needs it sorely, by thine own showing."

"Alas, uncle! mine be the blame, but it is over late.  My boy will rule himself for the love
of God and of his mother, but he will brook no hand over him--least of all now he is a knight
and thinks himself a man.  Uncle, I should be deprived of both my sons, for Friedel's very
soul is bound up with his brother's.  I pray thee enjoin not this thing on me," she implored.

"Child!" exclaimed Master Gottfried, "thou thinkst not that such a contract as this can be
declined for the sake of a wayward Junker!"

"Stay, house-father, the little one will doubtless hear reason and submit," put in the aunt.
"Her sons were goodly and delightsome to her in their upgrowth, but they are well-nigh men.
They will be away to court and camp, to love and marriage; and how will it be with her then,
young and fair as she still is?  Well will it be for her to have a stately lord of her own,
and a new home of love and honour springing round her."

"True," continued Sorel; "and though she be too pious and wise to reck greatly of such trifles,
yet it may please her dreamy brain to hear that Sir Kasimir loves her even like a paladin,
and the love of a tried man of six-and-forty is better worth than a mere kindling of youthful
fancy."

"Mine Eberhard loved me!" murmured Christina, almost to herself, but her aunt caught the word.

"And what was such love worth?  To force thee into a stolen match, and leave thee alone and
unowned to the consequences!"

"Peace!" exclaimed Christina, with crimson cheek and uplifted head. "Peace!  My own dear lord
loved me with true and generous love!  None but myself knows how much.  Not a word will I hear
against that tender heart."

"Yes, peace," returned Gottfried in a conciliatory tone,--"peace to the brave Sir Eberhard.
Thine aunt meant no ill of him.  He truly would rejoice that the wisdom of his choice should
receive such testimony, and that his sons should be thus well handled.  Nay, little as I heed
such toys, it will doubtless please the lads that the baron will obtain of the Emperor letters
of nobility for this house, which verily sprang of a good Walloon family, and so their shield
will have no blank.  The Romish king promises to give thee rank with any baroness, and hath
fully owned what a pearl thou art, mine own sweet dove!  Nay, Sir Kasimir is coming to-morrow
in the trust to make the first betrothal with Graf von Kaulwitz as a witness, and I thought
of asking the Provost on the other hand."

"To-morrow!" exclaimed Johanna; "and how is she to be meetly clad? Look at this widow-garb;
and how is time to be found for procuring other raiment?  House-father, a substantial man like
you should better understand!  The meal too!  I must to gossip Sophie!"

"Verily, dear mother and father," said Christina, who had rallied a little, "have patience
with me.  I may not lightly or suddenly betroth myself; I know not that I can do so at all,
assuredly not unless my sons were heartily willing.  Have I your leave to retire?"

"Granted, my child, for meditation will show thee that this is too fair a lot for any but thee.
Much had I longed to see thee wedded ere thy sons outgrew thy care, but I shunned proposing
even one of our worthy guildmasters, lest my young Freiherr should take offence; but this knight,
of his own blood, true and wise as a burgher, and faithful and God-fearing withal, is a better
match than I durst hope, and is no doubt a special reward from thy patron saint."

"Let me entreat one favour more," implored Christina.  "Speak of this to no one ere I have
seen my sons."

She made her way to her own chamber, there to weep and flutter. Marriage was a matter of such
high contract between families that the parties themselves had usually no voice in the matter,
and only the widowed had any chance of a personal choice; nor was this always accorded in the
case of females, who remained at the disposal of their relatives.  Good substantial wedded
affection was not lacking, but romantic love was thought an unnecessary preliminary, and found
a vent in extravagant adoration, not always in reputable quarters. Obedience first to the father,
then to the husband, was the first requisite; love might shift for itself; and the fair widow
of Adlerstein, telling her beads in sheer perplexity, knew not whether her strong repugnance
to this marriage and warm sympathy with her son Ebbo were not an act of rebellion.  Yet each
moment did her husband rise before her mind more vividly, with his rugged looks, his warm,
tender heart, his dawnings of comprehension, his generous forbearance and reverential love--the
love of her youth--to be equalled by no other.  The accomplished courtier and polished man
of the world might be his superior, but she loathed the superiority, since it was to her husband.
Might not his one chosen dove keep heart-whole for him to the last?  She recollected that coarsest,
cruellest reproach of all that her mother-in-law had been wont to fling at her,--that she,
the recent widow, the new-made mother of Eberhard's babes, in her grief, her terror, and her
weakness had sought to captivate this suitor by her blandishments.  The taunt seemed justified,
and her cheeks burned with absolute shame "My husband! my loving Eberhard! left with none but
me to love thee, unknown to thine own sons!  I cannot, I will not give my heart away from thee!
Thy little bride shall be faithful to thee, whatever betide.  When we meet beyond the grave
I will have been thine only, nor have set any before thy sons.  Heaven forgive me if I be undutiful
to my uncle; but thou must be preferred before even him!  Hark!" and she started as if at Eberhard's
foot-step; then smiled, recollecting that Ebbo had his father's tread.  But her husband had
been too much in awe of her to enter with that hasty agitated step and exclamation, "Mother,
mother, what insolence is this!"

"Hush, Ebbo!  I prayed mine uncle to let me speak to thee."

"It is true, then," said Ebbo, dashing his cap on the ground; "I had soundly beaten that grinning
'prentice for telling Heinz."

"Truly the house rings with the rumour, mother," said Friedel, "but we had not believed it."

"I believed Wildschloss assured enough for aught," said Ebbo, "but I thought he knew where
to begin.  Does he not know who is head of the house of Adlerstein, since he must tamper with
a mechanical craftsman, cap in hand to any sprig of nobility!  I would have soon silenced his
overtures!"

"Is it in sooth as we heard?" asked Friedel, blushing to the ears, for the boy was shy as a
maiden.  "Mother, we know what you would say," he added, throwing himself on his knees beside
her, his arm round her waist, his cheek on her lap, and his eyes raised to hers.

She bent down to kiss him.  "Thou knewst it, Friedel, and now must thou aid me to remain thy
father's true widow, and to keep Ebbo from being violent."

Ebbo checked his hasty march to put his hand on her chair and kiss her brow.  "Motherling,
I will restrain myself, so you will give me your word not to desert us."

"Nay, Ebbo," said Friedel, "the motherling is too true and loving for us to bind her."

"Children," she answered, "hear me patiently.  I have been communing with myself, and deeply
do I feel that none other can I love save him who is to you a mere name, but to me a living
presence.  Nor would I put any between you and me.  Fear me not, Ebbo.  I think the mothers
and sons of this wider, fuller world do not prize one another as we do.  But, my son, this
is no matter for rage or ingratitude. Remember it is no small condescension in a noble to stoop
to thy citizen mother."

"He knew what painted puppets noble ladies are," growled Ebbo.

"Moreover," continued Christina, "thine uncle is highly gratified, and cannot believe that
I can refuse.  He understands not my love for thy father, and sees many advantages for us all.
I doubt me if he believes I have power to resist his will, and for thee, he would not count
thine opposition valid.  And the more angry and vehement thou art, the more will he deem himself
doing thee a service by overruling thee."

"Come home, mother.  Let Heinz lead our horses to the door in the dawn, and when we are back
in free Adlerstein it will be plain who is master."

"Such a flitting would scarce prove our wisdom," said Christina, "to run away with thy mother
like a lover in a ballad.  Nay, let me first deal gently with thine uncle, and speak myself
with Sir Kasimir, so that I may show him the vanity of his suit.  Then will we back to Adlerstein
without leaving wounds to requite kindness."

Ebbo was wrought on to promise not to attack the burgomaster on the subject, but he was moody
and silent, and Master Gottfried let him alone, considering his gloom as another proof of his
need of fatherly authority, and as a peace-lover forbearing to provoke his fiery spirit.

But when Sir Kasimir's visit was imminent, and Christina had refused to make the change in
her dress by which a young widow was considered to lay herself open to another courtship, Master
Gottfried called the twins apart.

"My young lords," he said, "I fear me ye are vexing your gentle mother by needless strife at
what must take place."

"Pardon me, good uncle," said Ebbo, "I utterly decline the honour of Sir Kasimir's suit to
my mother."

Master Gottfried smiled.  "Sons are not wont to be the judges in such cases, Sir Eberhard."

"Perhaps not," he answered; "but my mother's will is to the nayward, nor shall she be coerced."

"It is merely because of you and your pride," said Master Gottfried.

"I think not so," rejoined the calmer Friedel; "my mother's love for my father is still fresh."

"Young knights," said Master Gottfried, "it would scarce become me to say, nor you to hear,
how much matter of fancy such love must have been towards one whom she knew but for a few short
months, though her pure sweet dreams, through these long years, have moulded him into a hero.
Boys, I verily believe ye love her truly.  Would it be well for her still to mourn and cherish
a dream while yet in her fresh age, capable of new happiness, fuller than she has ever enjoyed?"

"She is happy with us," rejoined Ebbo.

"And ye are good lads and loving sons, though less duteous in manner than I could wish.  But
look you, you may not ever be with her, and when ye are absent in camp or court, or contracting
a wedlock of your own, would you leave her to her lonesome life in your solitary castle?"

Friedel's unselfishness might have been startled, but Ebbo boldly answered, "All mine is hers.
No joy to me but shall be a joy to her. We can make her happier than could any stranger.  Is
it not so, Friedel?"

"It is," said Friedel, thoughtfully.

"Ah, rash bloods, promising beyond what ye can keep.  Nature will be too strong for you.  Love
your mother as ye may, what will she be to you when a bride comes in your way?  Fling not away
in wrath, Sir Baron; it was so with your parents both before you; and what said the law of
the good God at the first marriage?  How can you withstand the nature He has given?"

"Belike I may wed," said Ebbo, bluntly; "but if it be not for my mother's happiness, call me
man-sworn knight."

"Not so," good-humouredly answered Gottfried, "but boy-sworn paladin, who talks of he knows
not what.  Speak knightly truth, Sir Baron, and own that this opposition is in verity from
distaste to a stepfather's rule."

"I own that I will not brook such rule," said Ebbo; "nor do I know what we have done to deserve
that it should be thrust on us.  You have never blamed Friedel, at least; and verily, uncle,
my mother's eye will lead me where a stranger's hand shall never drive me.  Did I even think
she had for this man a quarter of the love she bears to my dead father, I would strive for
endurance; but in good sooth we found her in tears, praying us to guard her from him.  I may
be a boy, but I am man enough to prevent her from being coerced."

"Was this so, Friedel?" asked Master Gottfried, moved more than by all that had gone before.
"Ach, I thought ye all wiser.  And spake she not of Sir Kasimir's offers?--Interest with the
Romish king?-- Yea, and a grant of nobility and arms to this house, so as to fill the blank
in your scutcheon?"

"My father never asked if she were noble," said Ebbo.  "Nor will I barter her for a cantle
of a shield."

"There spake a manly spirit," said his uncle, delighted.  "Her worth hath taught thee how little
to prize these gewgaws!  Yet, if you look to mingling with your own proud kind, ye may fall
among greater slights than ye can brook.  It may matter less to you, Sir Baron, but Friedel
here, ay, and your sons, will be ineligible to the choicest orders of knighthood, and the canonries
and chapters that are honourable endowments."

Friedel looked as if he could bear it, and Eberhard said, "The order of the Dove of Adlerstein
is enough for us."

"Headstrong all, headstrong all," sighed Master Gottfried.  "One romantic marriage has turned
all your heads."

The Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss, unprepared for the opposition that awaited him, was riding
down the street equipped point device, and with a goodly train of followers, in brilliant suits.
Private wooing did not enter into the honest ideas of the burghers, and the suitor was ushered
into the full family assembly, where Christina rose and came forward a few steps to meet him,
curtseying as low as he bowed, as he said, "Lady, I have preferred my suit to you through your
honour-worthy uncle, who is good enough to stand my friend."

"You are over good, sir.  I feel the honour, but a second wedlock may not be mine."

"Now," murmured Ebbo to his brother, as the knight and lady seated themselves in full view,
"now will the smooth-tongued fellow talk her out of her senses.  Alack! that gipsy prophecy!"

Wildschloss did not talk like a young wooer; such days were over for both; but he spoke as
a grave and honourable man, deeply penetrated with true esteem and affection.  He said that
at their first meeting he had been struck with her sweetness and discretion, and would soon
after have endeavoured to release her from her durance, but that he was bound by the contract
already made with the Trautbachs, who were dangerous neighbours to Wildschloss.  He had delayed
his distasteful marriage as long as possible, and it had caused him nothing but trouble and
strife; his children would not live, and Thekla, the only survivor, was, as his sole heiress,
a mark for the cupidity of her uncle, the Count of Trautbach, and his almost savage son Lassla;
while the right to the Wildschloss barony would become so doubtful between her and Ebbo, as
heir of the male line, that strife and bloodshed would be well-nigh inevitable.  These causes
made it almost imperative that he should re-marry, and his own strong preference and regard
for little Thekla directed his wishes towards the Freiherrinn von Adlerstein.  He backed his
suit with courtly compliments, as well as with representations of his child's need of a mother's
training, and the twins' equal want of fatherly guidance, dilating on the benefits he could
confer on them.

Christina felt his kindness, and had full trust in his intentions. "No" was a difficult syllable
to her, but she had that within her which could not accept him; and she firmly told him that
she was too much bound to both her Eberhards.  But there was no daunting him, nor preventing
her uncle and aunt from encouraging him.  He professed that he would wait, and give her time
to consider; and though she reiterated that consideration would not change her mind, Master
Gottfried came forward to thank him, and express his confidence of bringing her to reason.

"While I, sir," said Ebbo, with flashing eyes, and low but resentful voice, "beg to decline
the honour in the name of the elder house of Adlerstein."

He held himself upright as a dart, but was infinitely annoyed by the little mocking bow and
smile that he received in return, as Sir Kasimir, with his long mantle, swept out of the apartment,
attended by Master Gottfried.

"Burgomaster Sorel," said the boy, standing in the middle of the floor as his uncle returned,
"let me hear whether I am a person of any consideration in this family or not?"

"Nephew baron," quietly replied Master Gottfried, "it is not the use of us Germans to be dictated
to by youths not yet arrived at years of discretion."

"Then, mother," said Ebbo, "we leave this place to-morrow morn."  And at her nod of assent
the house-father looked deeply grieved, the house-mother began to clamour about ingratitude.
"Not so," answered Ebbo, fiercely.  "We quit the house as poor as we came, in homespun and
with the old mare."

"Peace, Ebbo!" said his mother, rising; "peace, I entreat, house- mother! pardon, uncle, I
pray thee.  O, why will not all who love me let me follow that which I believe to be best!"

"Child," said her uncle, "I cannot see thee domineered over by a youth whose whole conduct
shows his need of restraint."

"Nor am I," said Christina.  "It is I who am utterly averse to this offer.  My sons and I are
one in that; and, uncle, if I pray of you to consent to let us return to our castle, it is
that I would not see the visit that has made us so happy stained with strife and dissension!
Sure, sure, you cannot be angered with my son for his love for me."

"For the self-seeking of his love," said Master Gottfried.  "It is to gratify his own pride
that he first would prevent thee from being enriched and ennobled, and now would bear thee
away to the scant-- Nay, Freiherr, I will not seem to insult you, but resentment would make
you cruel to your mother."

"Not cruel!" said Friedel, hastily.  "My mother is willing.  And verily, good uncle, methinks
that we all were best at home.  We have benefited much and greatly by our stay; we have learnt
to love and reverence you; but we are wild mountaineers at the best; and, while our hearts
are fretted by the fear of losing our sweet mother, we can scarce be as patient or submissive
as if we had been bred up by a stern father.  We have ever judged and acted for ourselves,
and it is hard to us not to do so still, when our minds are chafed."

"Friedel," said Ebbo, sternly, "I will have no pardon asked for maintaining my mother's cause.
Do not thou learn to be smooth- tongued."

"O thou wrong-headed boy!" half groaned Master Gottfried.  "Why did not all this fall out ten
years sooner, when thou wouldst have been amenable?  Yet, after all, I do not know that any
noble training has produced a more high-minded loving youth," he added, half relenting as he
looked at the gallant, earnest face, full of defiance indeed, but with a certain wistful appealing
glance at "the motherling," softening the liquid lustrous dark eye.  "Get thee gone, boy, I
would not quarrel with you; and it may be, as Friedel says, that we are best out of one another's
way.  You are used to lord it, and I can scarce make excuses for you."

"Then," said Ebbo, scarce appeased, "I take home my mother, and you, sir, cease to favour Kasimir's
suit."

"No, Sir Baron.  I cease not to think that nothing would be so much for your good.  It is because
I believe that a return to your own old castle will best convince you all that I will not vex
your mother by further opposing your departure.  When you perceive your error may it only not
be too late!  Such a protector is not to be found every day."

"My mother shall never need any protector save myself," said Ebbo; "but, sir, she loves you,
and owes all to you.  Therefore I will not be at strife with you, and there is my hand."

He said it as if he had been the Emperor reconciling himself to all the Hanse towns in one.
Master Gottfried could scarce refrain from shrugging his shoulders, and Hausfrau Johanna was
exceedingly angry with the petulant pride and insolence of the young noble; but, in effect,
all were too much relieved to avoid an absolute quarrel with the fiery lad to take exception
at minor matters.  The old burgher was forbearing; Christina, who knew how much her son must
have swallowed to bring him to this concession for love of her, thought him a hero worthy of
all sacrifices; and peace-making Friedel, by his aunt's side, soon softened even her, by some
of the persuasive arguments that old dames love from gracious, graceful, great-nephews.

And when, by and by, Master Gottfried went out to call on Sir Kasimir, and explain how he had
thought it best to yield to the hot- tempered lad, and let the family learn how to be thankful
for the goods they had rejected, he found affairs in a state that made him doubly anxious that
the young barons should be safe on their mountain without knowing of them.  The Trautbach family
had heard of Wildschloss's designs, and they had set abroad such injurious reports respecting
the Lady of Adlerstein, that Sir Kasimir was in the act of inditing a cartel to be sent by
Count Kaulwitz, to demand an explanation--not merely as the lady's suitor, but as the only
Adlerstein of full age.  Now, if Ebbo had heard of the rumour, he would certainly have given
the lie direct, and taken the whole defence on himself; and it may be feared that, just as
his cause might have been, Master Gottfried's faith did not stretch to believing that it would
make his sixteen-year-old arm equal to the brutal might of Lassla of Trautbach.  So he heartily
thanked the Baron of Wildschloss, agreed with him that the young knights were not as yet equal
to the maintenance of the cause, and went home again to watch carefully that no report reached
either of his nephews.  Nor did he breathe freely till he had seen the little party ride safe
off in the early morning, in much more lordly guise than when they had entered the city.

As to Wildschloss and his nephew of Trautbach, in spite of their relationship they had a sharp
combat on the borders of their own estates, in which both were severely wounded; but Sir Kasimir,
with the misericorde in his grasp, forced Lassla to retract whatever he had said in dispraise
of the Lady of Adlerstein.  Wily old Gottfried took care that the tidings should be sent in
a form that might at once move Christina with pity and gratitude towards her champion, and
convince her sons that the adversary was too much hurt for them to attempt a fresh challenge.

CHAPTER XVI:  THE EAGLE AND THE SNAKE

The reconciliation made Ebbo retract his hasty resolution of relinquishing all the benefits
resulting from his connection with the Sorel family, and his mother's fortune made it possible
to carry out many changes that rendered the castle and its inmates far more prosperous in appearance
than had ever been the case before. Christina had once again the appliances of a wirthschaft,
such as she felt to be the suitable and becoming appurtenance of a right-minded Frau, gentle
or simple, and she felt so much the happier and more respectable.

A chaplain had also been secured.  The youths had insisted on his being capable of assisting
their studies, and, a good man had been found who was fearfully learned, having studied at
all possible universities, but then failing as a teacher, because he was so dreamy and absent
as to be incapable of keeping the unruly students in order.  Jobst Schon was his proper name,
but he was translated into Jodocus Pulcher.  The chapel was duly adorned, the hall and other
chambers were fitted up with some degree of comfort; the castle court was cleansed, the cattle
sheds removed to the rear, and the serfs were presented with seed, and offered payment in coin
if they would give their labour in fencing and clearing the cornfield and vineyard which the
barons were bent on forming on the sunny slope of the ravine.  Poverty was over, thanks to
the marriage portion, and yet Ebbo looked less happy than in the days when there was but a
bare subsistence; and he seemed to miss the full tide of city life more than did his brother,
who, though he had enjoyed Ulm more heartily at the time, seemed to have returned to all his
mountain delights with greater zest than ever.  At his favourite tarn, he revelled in the vast
stillness with the greater awe for having heard the hum of men, and his minstrel dreams had
derived fresh vigour from contact with the active world.  But, as usual, he was his brother's
chief stay in the vexations of a reformer.  The serfs had much rather their lord had turned
out a freebooter than an improver.  Why should they sow new seeds, when the old had sufficed
their fathers?  Work, beyond the regulated days when they scratched up the soil of his old
enclosure, was abhorrent to them.  As to his offered coin, they needed nothing it would buy,
and had rather bask in the sun or sleep in the smoke. A vineyard had never been heard of on
Adlerstein mountain:  it was clean contrary to his forefathers' habits; and all came of the
bad drop of restless burgher blood, that could not let honest folk rest.

Ebbo stormed, not merely with words, but blows, became ashamed of his violence, tried to atone
for it by gifts and kind words, and in return was sulkily told that he would bring more good
to the village by rolling the fiery wheel straight down hill at the wake, than by all his new-fangled
ways.  Had not Koppel and a few younger men been more open to influence, his agricultural schemes
could hardly have begun; but Friedel's persuasions were not absolutely without success, and
every rood that was dug was achieved by his patience and perseverance.

Next came home the Graf von Schlangenwald.  He had of late inhabited his castle in Styria,
but in a fierce quarrel with some of his neighbours he had lost his eldest son, and the pacification
enforced by the King of the Romans had so galled and infuriated him that he had deserted that
part of the country and returned to Swabia more fierce and bitter than ever.  Thenceforth began
a petty border warfare such as had existed when Christina first knew Adlerstein, but had of
late died out.  The shepherd lad came home weeping with wrath. Three mounted Schlangenwaldern
had driven off his four best sheep, and beaten himself with their halberds, though he was safe
on Adlerstein ground.  Then a light thrown by a Schlangenwald reiter consumed all Jobst's pile
of wood.  The swine did not come home, and were found with spears sticking in them; the great
broad-horned bull that Ebbo had brought from the pastures of Ulm vanished from the Alp below
the Gemsbock's Pass, and was known to be salted for winter use at Schlangenwald.

Still Christina tried to persuade her sons that this might be only the retainers' violence,
and induced Ebbo to write a letter, complaining of the outrages, but not blaming the Count,
only begging that his followers might be better restrained.  The letter was conveyed by a lay
brother--no other messenger being safe.  Ebbo had protested from the first that it would be
of no use, but he waited anxiously for the answer.

Thus it stood, when conveyed to him by a tenant of the Ruprecht cloister

"Wot you, Eberhard, Freiherr von Adlerstein, that your house have injured me by thought, word,
and deed.  Your great-grandfather usurped my lands at the ford.  Your grandfather stole my
cattle and burnt my mills.  Then, in the war, he slew my brother Johann and lamed for life
my cousin Matthias.  Your father slew eight of my retainers and spoiled my crops.  You yourself
claim my land at the ford, and secure the spoil which is justly mine.  Therefore do I declare
war and feud against you.  Therefore to you and all yours, to your helpers and helpers' helpers,
am I a foe.  And thereby shall I have maintained my honour against you and yours.

WOLFGANG, Graf von Schlangenwald. HIEROM, Graf von Schlangenwald--his cousin." &c. &c. &c.

And a long list of names, all connected with Schlangenwald, followed; and a large seal, bearing
the snake of Schlangenwald, was appended thereto.

"The old miscreant!" burst out Ebbo; "it is a feud brief."

"A feud brief!" exclaimed Friedel; "they are no longer according to the law."

"Law?--what cares he for law or mercy either?  Is this the way men act by the League?  Did
we not swear to send no more feud letters, nor have recourse to fist-right?"

"We must appeal to the Markgraf of Wurtemburg," said Friedel.

It was the only measure in their power, though Ebbo winced at it; but his oaths were recent,
and his conscience would not allow him to transgress them by doing himself justice.  Besides,
neither party could take the castle of the other, and the only reprisals in his power would
have been on the defenceless peasants of Schlangenwald. He must therefore lay the whole matter
before the Markgraf, who was the head of the Swabian League, and bound to redress his wrongs.
He made his arrangements without faltering, selecting the escort who were to accompany him,
and insisting on leaving Friedel to guard his mother and the castle.  He would not for the
world have admitted the suggestion that the counsel and introduction of Adlerstein Wildschloss
would have been exceedingly useful to him.

Poor Christina!  It was a great deal too like that former departure, and her heart was heavy
within her!  Friedel was equally unhappy at letting his brother go without him, but it was
quite necessary that he and the few armed men who remained should show themselves at all points
open to the enemy in the course of the day, lest the Freiherr's absence should be remarked.
He did his best to cheer his mother, by reminding her that Ebbo was not likely to be taken
at unawares as their father had been; and he shared the prayers and chapel services, in which
she poured out her anxiety.

The blue banner came safe up the Pass again, but Wurtemburg had been formally civil to the
young Freiherr; but he had laughed at the fend letter as a mere old-fashioned habit of Schangenwald's
that it was better not to notice, and he evidently regarded the stealing of a bull or the misusing
of a serf as far too petty a matter for his attention.  It was as if a judge had been called
by a crying child to settle a nursery quarrel.  He told Ebbo that, being a free Baron of the
empire, he must keep his bounds respected; he was free to take and hang any spoiler he could
catch, but his bulls were his own affair:  the League was not for such gear.

And a knight who had ridden out of Stuttgard with Ebbo had told him that it was no wonder that
this had been his reception, for not only was Schlangenwald an old intimate of the Markgraf,
but Swabia was claimed as a fief of Wurtemburg, so that Ebbo's direct homage to the Emperor,
without the interposition of the Markgraf, had made him no object of favour.

"What could be done?" asked Ebbo.

"Fire some Schlangenwald hamlet, and teach him to respect yours," said the knight.

"The poor serfs are guiltless."

"Ha! ha! as if they would not rob any of yours.  Give and take, that's the way the empire wags,
Sir Baron.  Send him a feud letter in return, with a goodly file of names at its foot, and
teach him to respect you."

"But I have sworn to abstain from fist-right."

"Much you gain by so abstaining.  If the League will not take the trouble to right you, right
yourself."

"I shall appeal to the Emperor, and tell him how his League is administered."

"Young sir, if the Emperor were to guard every cow in his domains he would have enough to do.
You will never prosper with him without some one to back your cause better than that free tongue
of yours. Hast no sister that thou couldst give in marriage to a stout baron that could aid
you with strong arm and prudent head?"

"I have only one twin brother."

"Ah! the twins of Adlerstein!  I remember me.  Was not the other Adlerstein seeking an alliance
with your lady mother?  Sure no better aid could be found.  He is hand and glove with young
King Max."

"That may never be," said Ebbo, haughtily.  And, sure that he should receive the same advice,
he decided against turning aside to consult his uncle at Ulm, and returned home in a mood that
rejoiced Heinz and Hatto with hopes of the old days, while it filled his mother with dreary
dismay and apprehension.

"Schlangenwald should suffer next time he transgressed," said Ebbo. "It should not again be
said that he himself was a coward who appealed to the law because his hand could not keep his
head."

The "next time" was when the first winter cold was setting in.  A party of reitern came to
harry an outlying field, where Ulrich had raised a scanty crop of rye.  Tidings reached the
castle in such good time that the two brothers, with Heinz, the two Ulm grooms, Koppel, and
a troop of serfs, fell on the marauders before they had effected much damage, and while some
remained to trample out the fire, the rest pursued the enemy even to the village of Schlangenwald.

"Burn it, Herr Freiherr," cried Heinz, hot with victory.  "Let them learn how to make havoc
of our corn."

But a host of half-naked beings rushed out shrieking about sick children, bed-ridden grandmothers,
and crippled fathers, and falling on their knees, with their hands stretched out to the young
barons. Ebbo turned away his head with hot tears in his eyes.  "Friedel, what can we do?"

"Not barbarous murder," said Friedel.

"But they brand us for cowards!"

"The cowardice were in striking here," and Friedel sprang to withhold Koppel, who had lighted
a bundle of dried fern ready to thrust into the thatch.

"Peasants!" said Ebbo, with the same impulse, "I spare you.  You did not this wrong.  But bear
word to your lord, that if he will meet me with lance and sword, he will learn the valour of
Adlerstein."

The serfs flung themselves before him in transports of gratitude, but he turned hastily away
and strode up the mountain, his cheek glowing as he remembered, too late, that his defiance
would be scoffed at, as a boy's vaunt.  By and by he arrived at the hamlet, where he found
a prisoner, a scowling, abject fellow, already well beaten, and now held by two serfs.

"The halter is ready, Herr Freiherr," said old Ulrich, "and yon rowan stump is still as stout
as when your Herr grandsire hung three lanzknechts on it in one day.  We only waited your bidding."

"Quick then, and let me hear no more," said Ebbo, about to descend the pass, as if hastening
from the execution of a wolf taken in a gin.

"Has he seen the priest?" asked Friedel.

The peasants looked as if this were one of Sir Friedel's unaccountable fancies.  Ebbo paused,
frowned, and muttered, but seeing a move as if to drag the wretch towards the stunted bush
overhanging an abyss, he shouted, "Hold, Ulrich!  Little Hans, do thou run down to the castle,
and bring Father Jodocus to do his office!"

The serfs were much disgusted.  "It never was so seen before, Herr Freiherr," remonstrated
Heinz; "fang and hang was ever the word."

"What shrift had my lord's father, or mine?" added Koppel.

"Look you!" said Ebbo, turning sharply.  "If Schlangenwald be a godless ruffian, pitiless alike
to soul and body, is that a cause that I should stain myself too?"

"It were true vengeance," growled Koppel.

"And now," grumbled Ulrich, "will my lady hear, and there will be feeble pleadings for the
vermin's life."

Like mutterings ensued, the purport of which was caught by Friedel, and made him say to Ebbo,
who would again have escaped the disagreeableness of the scene, "We had better tarry at hand.
Unless we hold the folk in some check there will be no right execution. They will torture him
to death ere the priest comes."

Ebbo yielded, and began to pace the scanty area of the flat rock where the need-fire was wont
to blaze.  After a time he exclaimed: "Friedel, how couldst ask me?  Knowst not that it sickens
me to see a mountain cat killed, save in full chase.  And thou--why, thou art white as the
snow crags!"

"Better conquer the folly than that he there should be put to needless pain," said Friedel,
but with labouring breath that showed how terrible was the prospect to his imaginative soul
not inured to death-scenes like those of his fellows.

Just then a mocking laugh broke forth.  "Ha!" cried Ebbo, looking keenly down, "what do ye
there?  Fang and hang may be fair; fang and torment is base!  What was it, Lieschen?"

"Only, Herr Freiherr, the caitiff craved drink, and the fleischerinn gave him a cup from the
stream behind the slaughter-house, where we killed the swine.  Fit for the like of him!"

"By heavens, when I forbade torture!" cried Ebbo, leaping from the rock in time to see the
disgusting draught held to the lips of the captive, whose hands were twisted back and bound
with cruel tightness; for the German boor, once roused from his lazy good- nature, was doubly
savage from stolidity.

"Wretches!" cried Ebbo, striking right and left with the back of his sword, among the serfs,
and then cutting the thong that was eating into the prisoner's flesh, while Friedel caught
up a wooden bowl, filled it with pure water, and offered it to the captive, who drank deeply.

"Now," said Ebbo, "hast ought to say for thyself?"

A low curse against things in general was the only answer.

"What brought thee here?" continued Ebbo, in hopes of extracting some excuse for pardon; but
the prisoner only hung his head as one stupefied, brutally indifferent and hardened against
the mere trouble of answering.  Not another word could be extracted, and Ebbo's position was
very uncomfortable, keeping guard over his condemned felon, with the sulky peasants herding
round, in fear of being balked of their prey; and the reluctance growing on him every moment
to taking life in cold blood.  Right of life and death was a heavy burden to a youth under
seventeen, unless he had been thoughtless and reckless, and from this Ebbo had been prevented
by his peculiar life. The lion cub had never tasted blood.

The situation was prolonged beyond expectation.

Many a time had the brothers paced their platform of rock, the criminal had fallen into a dose,
and women and boys were murmuring that they must call home their kine and goats, and it was
a shame to debar them of the sight of the hanging, long before Hans came back between crying
and stammering, to say that Father Jodocus had fallen into so deep a study over his book, that
he only muttered "Coming," then went into another musing fit, whence no one could rouse him
to do more than say "Coming!  Let him wait."

"I must go and bring him, if the thing is to be done," said Friedel.

"And let it last all night!" was the answer.  "No, if the man were to die, it should be at
once, not by inches.  Hark thee, rogue!" stirring him with his foot.

"Well, sir," said the man, "is the hanging ready yet?  You've been long enough about it for
us to have twisted the necks of every Adlerstein of you all."

"Look thee, caitiff!" said Ebbo; "thou meritest the rope as well as any wolf on the mountain,
but we have kept thee so long in suspense, that if thou canst say a word for thy life, or pledge
thyself to meddle no more with my lands, I'll consider of thy doom."

"You have had plenty of time to consider it," growled the fellow.

A murmur, followed by a wrathful shout, rose among the villagers. "Letting off the villain!
No!  No!  Out upon him!  He dares not!"

"Dare!" thundered Ebbo, with flashing eyes.  "Rascals as ye are, think ye to hinder me from
daring?  Your will to be mine?  There, fellow; away with thee!  Up to the Gemsbock's Pass!
And whoso would follow him, let him do so at his peril!"

The prisoner was prompt to gather himself up and rush like a hunted animal to the path, at
the entrance of which stood both twins, with drawn swords, to defend the escape.  Of course
no one ventured to follow; and surly discontented murmurs were the sole result as the peasants
dispersed.  Ebbo, sheathing his sword, and putting his arm into his brother's, said:  "What,
Friedel, turned stony-hearted? Hadst never a word for the poor caitiff?"

"I knew thou wouldst never do the deed," said Friedel, smiling.

"It was such wretched prey," said Ebbo.  "Yet shall I be despised for this!  Would that thou
hadst let me string him up shriftless, as any other man had done, and there would have been
an end of it!"

And even his mother's satisfaction did not greatly comfort Ebbo, for he was of the age to feel
more ashamed of a solecism than a crime. Christina perceived that this was one of his most
critical periods of life, baited as he was by the enemy of his race, and feeling all the disadvantages
which heart and conscience gave him in dealing with a man who had neither, at a time when public
opinion was always with the most masterful.  The necessity of arming his retainers and having
fighting men as a guard were additional temptations to hereditary habits of violence; and that
so proud and fiery a nature as his should never become involved in them was almost beyond hope.
Even present danger seemed more around than ever before.  The estate was almost in a state
of siege, and Christina never saw her sons quit the castle without thinking of their father's
fate, and passing into the chapel to entreat for their return unscathed in body or soul.  The
snow, which she had so often hailed as a friend, was never more welcome than this winter; not
merely as shutting the enemy out, and her sons in, but as cutting off all danger of a visit
from her suitor, who would now come armed with his late sufferings in her behalf; and, moreover,
with all the urgent need of a wise and respected head and protector for her sons.  Yet the
more evident the expediency became, the greater grew her distaste.

Still the lonely life weighed heavily on Ebbo.  Light-hearted Friedel was ever busy and happy,
were he chasing the grim winter game--the bear and wolf--with his brother, fencing in the hall,
learning Greek with the chaplain, reading or singing to his mother, or carving graceful angel
forms to adorn the chapel.  Or he could at all times soar into a minstrel dream of pure chivalrous
semi-allegorical romance, sometimes told over the glowing embers to his mother and brother.
All that came to Friedel was joy, from battling with the bear on a frozen rock, to persuading
rude little Hans to come to the Frau Freiherrinn to learn his Paternoster.  But the elder twin
might hunt, might fence, might smile or kindle at his brother's lay, but ever with a restless
gloom on him, a doubt of the future which made him impatient of the present, and led to a sharpness
and hastiness of manner that broke forth in anger at slight offences.

"The matron's coif succeeding the widow's veil," Friedel heard him muttering even in sleep,
and more than once listened to it as Ebbo leant over the battlements--as he looked over the
white world to the gray mist above the city of Ulm.

"Thou, who mockest my forebodings and fancies, to dwell on that gipsy augury!" argued Friedel.
"As thou saidst at the time, Wildschloss's looks gave shrewd cause for it."

"The answer is in mine own heart," answered Ebbo.  "Since our stay at Ulm, I have ever felt
as though the sweet motherling were less my own!  And the same with my house and lands.  Rule
as I will, a mocking laugh comes back to me, saying:  'Thou art but a boy, Sir Baron, thou
dost but play at lords and knights.'  If I had hung yon rogue of a reiter, I wonder if I had
felt my grasp more real?"

"Nay," said Friedel, glancing from the sparkling white slopes to the pure blue above, "our
whole life is but a play at lords and knights, with the blessed saints as witnesses of our
sport in the tilt-yard."

"Were it merely that," said Ebbo, impatiently, "I were not so galled. Something hangs over
us, Friedel!  I long that these snows would melt, that I might at least know what it is!"

CHAPTER XVII:  BRIDGING THE FORD

The snow melted, the torrent became a flood, then contracted itself, but was still a broad
stream, when one spring afternoon Ebbo showed his brother some wains making for the ford, adding,
"It cannot be rightly passable.  They will come to loss.  I shall get the men together to aid
them."

He blew a blast on his horn, and added, "The knaves will be alert enough if they hope to meddle
with honest men's luggage."

"See," and Friedel pointed to the thicket to the westward of the meadow around the stream,
where the beech trees were budding, but not yet forming a full mass of verdure, "is not the
Snake in the wood? Methinks I spy the glitter of his scales."

"By heavens, the villains are lying in wait for the travellers at our landing-place," cried
Ebbo, and again raising the bugle to his lips, he sent forth three notes well known as a call
to arms.  Their echoes came back from the rocks, followed instantly by lusty jodels, and the
brothers rushed into the hall to take down their light head-pieces and corslets, answering
in haste their mother's startled questions, by telling of the endangered travellers, and the
Schlangenwald ambush.  She looked white and trembled, but said no word to hinder them; only
as she clasped Friedel's corslet, she entreated them to take fuller armour.

"We must speed the short way down the rock," said Ebbo, "and cannot be cumbered with heavy
harness.  Sweet motherling, fear not; but let a meal be spread for our rescued captives.  Ho,
Heinz, 'tis against the Schlangenwald rascals.  Art too stiff to go down the rock path?"

"No; nor down the abyss, could I strike a good stroke against Schlangenwald at the bottom of
it," quoth Heinz.

"Nor see vermin set free by the Freiherr," growled Koppel; but the words were lost in Ebbo's
loud commands to the men, as Friedel and Hatto handed down the weapons to them.

The convoy had by this time halted, evidently to try the ford.  A horseman crossed, and found
it practicable, for a waggon proceeded to make the attempt.

"Now is our time," said Ebbo, who was standing on the narrow ledge between the castle and the
precipitous path leading to the meadow. "One waggon may get over, but the second or third will
stick in the ruts that it leaves.  Now we will drop from our crag, and if the Snake falls on
them, why, then for a pounce of the Eagle."

The two young knights, so goodly in their bright steel, knelt for their mother's blessing,
and then sprang like chamois down the ivy- twined steep, followed by their men, and were lost
to sight among the bushes and rocks.  Yet even while her frame quivered with fear, her heart
swelled at the thought what a gulf there was between these days and those when she had hidden
her face in despair, while Ermentrude watched the Debateable Ford.

She watched now in suspense, indeed, but with exultation instead of shame, as two waggons safely
crossed; but the third stuck fast, and presently turned over in the stream, impelled sideways
by the efforts of the struggling horses.  Then, amid endeavours to disentangle the animals
and succour the driver, the travellers were attacked by a party of armed men, who dashed out
of the beechwood, and fell on the main body of the waggons, which were waiting on the bit of
bare shingly soil that lay between the new and old channels.  A wild melee was all that Christina
could see--weapons raised, horses starting, men rushing from the river, while the clang and
the shout rose even to the castle.

Hark!  Out rings the clear call, "The Eagle to the rescue!"  There they speed over the meadow,
the two slender forms with glancing helms!  O overrun not the followers, rush not into needless
danger! There is Koppel almost up with them with his big axe--Heinz's broad shoulders near.
Heaven strike with them!  Visit not their forefathers' sin on those pure spirits.  Some are
flying.  Some one has fallen!  O heavens! on which side?  Ah! it is into the Schlangenwald
woods that the fugitives direct their flight.  Three-- four--the whole troop pursued!  Go not
too far!  Run not into needless risk!  Your work is done, and gallantly.  Well done, young
knights of Adlerstein!  Which of you is it that stands pointing out safe standing-ground for
the men that are raising the waggon?  Which of you is it who stands in converse with a burgher
form?  Thanks and blessings! the lads are safe, and full knightly hath been their first emprise.

A quarter of an hour later, a gay step mounted the ascent, and Friedel's bright face laughed
from his helmet:  "There, mother, will you crown your knights?  Could you see Ebbo bear down
the chief squire? for the old Snake was not there himself.  And whom do you think we rescued,
besides a whole band of Venetian traders to whom he had joined himself?  Why, my uncle's friend,
the architect, of whom he used to speak--Master Moritz Schleiermacher."

"Moritz Schleiermacher!  I knew him as a boy."

"He had been laying out a Lustgarten for the Romish king at Innspruck, and he is a stout man
of his hands, and attempted defence; but he had such a shrewd blow before we came up, that
he lay like one dead; and when he was lifted up, he gazed at us like one moon-struck, and said,
'Are my eyes dazed, or are these the twins of Adlerstein, that are as like as face to mirror?
Lads, lads, your uncle looked not to hear of you acting in this sort.'  But soon we and his
people let him know how it was, and that eagles do not have the manner of snakes."

"Poor Master Moritz!  Is he much hurt?  Is Ebbo bringing him up hither?"

"No, mother, he is but giddied and stunned, and now must you send down store of sausage, sourkraut,
meat, wine, and beer; for the wains cannot all cross till daylight, and we must keep ward all
night lest the Schlangenwalden should fall on them again.  Plenty of good cheer, mother, to
make a right merry watch."

"Take heed, Friedel mine; a merry watch is scarce a safe one."

"Even so, sweet motherling, and therefore must Ebbo and I share it. You must mete out your
liquor wisely, you see, enough for the credit of Adlerstein, and enough to keep out the marsh
fog, yet not enough to make us snore too soundly.  I am going to take my lute; it would be
using it ill not to let it enjoy such a chance as a midnight watch."

So away went the light-hearted boy, and by and by Christina saw the red watch-fire as she gazed
from her turret window.  She would have been pleased to see how, marshalled by a merchant who
had crossed the desert from Egypt to Palestine, the waggons were ranged in a circle, and the
watches told off, while the food and drink were carefully portioned out.

Freiherr Ebbo, on his own ground, as champion and host, was far more at ease than in the city,
and became very friendly with the merchants and architect as they sat round the bright fire,
conversing, or at times challenging the mountain echoes by songs to the sound of Friedel's
lute.  When the stars grew bright, most lay down to sleep in the waggons, while others watched,
pacing up and down till Karl's waggon should be over the mountain, and the vigil was relieved.

No disturbance took place, and at sunrise a hasty meal was partaken of, and the work of crossing
the river was set in hand.

"Pity," said Moritz, the architect, "that this ford were not spanned by a bridge, to the avoiding
of danger and spoil."

"Who could build such a bridge?" asked Ebbo.

"Yourself, Herr Freiherr, in union with us burghers of Ulm.  It were well worth your while
to give land and stone, and ours to give labour and skill, provided we fixed a toll on the
passage, which would be willingly paid to save peril and delay."

The brothers caught at the idea, and the merchants agreed that such a bridge would be an inestimable
boon to all traffickers between Constance, Ulm, and Augsburg, and would attract many travellers
who were scared away by the evil fame of the Debateable Ford.  Master Moritz looked at the
stone of the mountain, pronounced it excellent material, and already sketched the span of the
arches with a view to winter torrents.  As to the site, the best was on the firm ground above
the ford; but here only one side was Adlerstein, while on the other Ebbo claimed both banks,
and it was probable that an equally sound foundation could be obtained, only with more cost
and delay.

After this survey, the travellers took leave of the barons, promising to write when their fellow-citizens
should have been sounded as to the bridge; and Ebbo remained in high spirits, with such brilliant
purposes that he had quite forgotten his gloomy forebodings.  "Peace instead of war at home,"
he said; "with the revenue it will bring, I will build a mill, and set our lads to work, so
that they may become less dull and doltish than their parents.  Then will we follow the Emperor
with a train that none need despise!  No one will talk now of Adlerstein not being able to
take care of himself!"

Letters came from Ulm, saying that the guilds of mercers and wine merchants were delighted
with the project, and invited the Baron of Adlerstein to a council at the Rathhaus.  Master
Sorel begged the mother to come with her sons to be his guest; but fearing the neighbourhood
of Sir Kasimir, she remained at home, with Heinz for her seneschal while her sons rode to the
city.  There Ebbo found that his late exploit and his future plan had made him a person of
much greater consideration than on his last visit, and he demeaned himself with far more ease
and affability in consequence.  He had affairs on his hands too, and felt more than one year older.

The two guilds agreed to build the bridge, and share the toll with the Baron in return for
the ground and materials; but they preferred the plan that placed one pier on the Schlangenwald
bank, and proposed to write to the Count an offer to include him in the scheme, awarding him
a share of the profits in proportion to his contribution. However vexed at the turn affairs
had taken, Ebbo could offer no valid objection, and was obliged to affix his signature to the
letter in company with the guildmasters.

It was despatched by the city pursuivants -

The only men who safe might ride;

Their errands on the border side and a meeting was appointed in the Rathhaus for the day of
their expected return.  The higher burghers sat on their carved chairs in the grand old hall,
the lesser magnates on benches, and Ebbo, in an elbowed seat far too spacious for his slender
proportions, met a glance from Friedel that told him his merry brother was thinking of the
frog and the ox.  The pursuivants entered--hardy, shrewd-looking men, with the city arms decking
them wherever there was room for them.

"Honour-worthy sirs," they said, "no letter did the Graf von Schlangenwald return."

"Sent he no message?" demanded Moritz Schleiermacher.

"Yea, worthy sir, but scarce befitting this reverend assembly."  On being pressed, however,
it was repeated:  "The Lord Count was pleased to swear at what he termed the insolence of the
city in sending him heralds, 'as if,' said he, 'the dogs,' your worships, 'were his equals.'
Then having cursed your worships, he reviled the crooked writing of Herr Clerk Diedrichson,
and called his chaplain to read it to him.  Herr Priest could scarce read three lines for his
foul language about the ford.  'Never,' said he, 'would he consent to raising a bridge--a mean
trick,' so said he, 'for defrauding him of his rights to what the flood sent him.'"

"But," asked Ebbo, "took he no note of our explanation, that if he give not the upper bank,
we will build lower, where both sides are my own?"

"He passed it not entirely over," replied the messenger.

"What said he--the very words?" demanded Ebbo, with the paling cheek and low voice that made
his passion often seem like patience.

"He said--(the Herr Freiherr will pardon me for repeating the words)- -he said, 'Tell the misproud
mongrel of Adlerstein that he had best sit firm in his own saddle ere meddling with his betters,
and if he touch one pebble of the Braunwasser, he will rue it.  And before your city-folk take
up with him or his, they had best learn whether he have any right at all in the case.'"

"His right is plain," said Master Gottfried; "full proofs were given in, and his investiture
by the Kaisar forms a title in itself.  It is mere bravado, and an endeavour to make mischief
between the Baron and the city."

"Even so did I explain, Herr Guildmaster," said the pursuivant; "but, pardon me, the Count
laughed me to scorn, and quoth he, 'asked the Kaisar for proof of his father's death!'"

"Mere mischief-making, as before," said Master Gottfried, while his nephews started with amaze.
"His father's death was proved by an eye-witness, whom you still have in your train, have you
not, Herr Freiherr?"

"Yea," replied Ebbo, "he is at Adlerstein now, Heinrich Bauermann, called the Schneiderlein,
a lanzknecht, who alone escaped the slaughter, and from whom we have often heard how my father
died, choked in his own blood, from a deep breast-wound, immediately after he had sent home
his last greetings to my lady mother."

"Was the corpse restored?" asked the able Rathsherr Ulrich.

"No," said Ebbo.  "Almost all our retainers had perished, and when a friar was sent to the
hostel to bring home the remains, it appeared that the treacherous foe had borne them off--nay,
my grandfather's head was sent to the Diet!"

The whole assembly agreed that the Count could only mean to make the absence of direct evidence
about a murder committed eighteen years ago tell in sowing distrust between the allies.  The
suggestion was not worth a thought, and it was plain that no site would be available except
the Debateable Strand.  To this, however, Ebbo's title was assailable, both on account of his
minority, as well as his father's unproved death, and of the disputed claim to the ground.
The Rathsherr, Master Gottfried, and others, therefore recommended deferring the work till
the Baron should be of age, when, on again tendering his allegiance, he might obtain a distinct
recognition of his marches.  But this policy did not consort with the quick spirit of Moritz
Schleiermacher, nor with the convenience of the mercers and wine-merchants, who were constant
sufferers by the want of a bridge, and afraid of waiting four years, in which a lad like the
Baron might return to the nominal instincts of his class, or the Braunwasser might take back
the land it had given; whilst Ebbo himself was urgent, with all the defiant fire of youth,
to begin building at once in spite of all gainsayers.

"Strife and blood will it cost," said Master Sorel, gravely.

"What can be had worth the having save at cost of strife and blood?" said Ebbo, with a glance
of fire.

"Youth speaks of counting the cost.  Little knows it what it saith," sighed Master Gottfried.

"Nay," returned the Rathsherr, "were it otherwise, who would have the heart for enterprise?"

So the young knights mounted, and had ridden about half the way in silence, when Ebbo exclaimed,
"Friedel"--and as his brother started, "What art musing on?"

"What thou art thinking of," said Friedel, turning on him an eye that had not only something
of the brightness but of the penetration of a sunbeam.

"I do not think thereon at all," said Ebbo, gloomily.  "It is a figment of the old serpent
to hinder us from snatching his prey from him."

"Nevertheless," said Friedel, "I cannot but remember that the Genoese merchant of old told
us of a German noble sold by his foes to the Moors."

"Folly!  That tale was too recent to concern my father."

"I did not think it did," said Friedel; "but mayhap that noble's family rest equally certain
of his death."

"Pfui!" said Ebbo, hotly; "hast not heard fifty times how he died even in speaking, and how
Heinz crossed his hands on his breast? What wouldst have more?"

"Hardly even that," said Friedel, slightly smiling.

"Tush!" hastily returned his brother, "I meant only by way of proof. Would an honest old fellow
like Heinz be a deceiver?"

"Not wittingly.  Yet I would fain ride to that hostel and make inquiries!"

"The traitor host met his deserts, and was broken on the wheel for murdering a pedlar a year
ago," said Ebbo.  "I would I knew where my father was buried, for then would I bring his corpse
honourably back; but as to his being a living man, I will not have it spoken of to trouble
my mother."

"To trouble her?" exclaimed Friedel.

"To trouble her," repeated Ebbo.  "Long since hath passed the pang of his loss, and there is
reason in what old Sorel says, that he must have been a rugged, untaught savage, with little
in common with the gentle one, and that tender memory hath decked him out as he never could
have been.  Nay, Friedel, it is but sense.  What could a man have been under the granddame's
breeding?"

"It becomes not thee to say so!" returned Friedel.  "Nay, he could learn to love our mother."

"One sign of grace, but doubtless she loved him the better for their having been so little
together.  Her heart is at peace, believing him in his grave; but let her imagine him in Schlangenwald's
dungeon, or some Moorish galley, if thou likest it better, and how will her mild spirit be rent!"

"It might be so," said Friedel, thoughtfully.  "It may be best to keep this secret from her
till we have fuller certainty."

"Agreed then," said Ebbo, "unless the Wildschloss fellow should again molest us, when his answer
is ready."

"Is this just towards my mother?" said Friedel.

"Just!  What mean'st thou?  Is it not our office and our dearest right to shield our mother
from care?  And is not her chief wish to be rid of the Wildschloss suit?"

Nevertheless Ebbo was moody all the way home, but when there he devoted himself in his most
eager and winning way to his mother, telling her of Master Gottfried's woodcuts, and Hausfrau
Johanna's rheumatism, and of all the news of the country, in especial that the Kaisar was at
Lintz, very ill with a gangrene in his leg, said to have been caused by his habit of always
kicking doors open, and that his doctors thought of amputation, a horrible idea in the fifteenth
century.  The young baron was evidently bent on proving that no one could make his mother so
happy as he could; and he was not far wrong there.

Friedel, however, could not rest till he had followed Heinz to the stable, and speaking over
the back of the old white mare, the only other survivor of the massacre, had asked him once
more for the particulars, a tale he was never loth to tell; but when Friedel further demanded
whether he was certain of having seen the death of his younger lord, he replied, as if hurt:
"What, think you I would have quitted him while life was yet in him?"

"No, certainly, good Heinz; yet I would fain know by what tokens thou knewest his death."

"Ah!  Sir Friedel; when you have seen a stricken field or two, you will not ask how I know
death from life."

"Is a swoon so utterly unlike death?"

"I say not but that an inexperienced youth might be mistaken," said Heinz; "but for one who
had learned the bloody trade, it were impossible.  Why ask, sir?"

"Because," said Friedel, low and mysteriously--"my brother would not have my mother know it,
but--Count Schlangenwald demanded whether we could prove my father's death."

"Prove!  He could not choose but die with three such wounds, as the old ruffian knows.  I shall
bless the day, Sir Friedmund, when I see you or your brother give back those strokes!  A heavy
reckoning be his."

"We all deem that line only meant to cross our designs," said Friedel.  "Yet, Heinz, I would
I knew how to find out what passed when thou wast gone.  Is there no servant at the inn--no
retainer of Schlangenwald that aught could be learnt from?"

"By St. Gertrude," roughly answered the Schneiderlein, "if you cannot be satisfied with the
oath of a man like me, who would have given his life to save your father, I know not what will
please you."

Friedel, with his wonted good-nature, set himself to pacify the warrior with assurances of
his trust; yet while Ebbo plunged more eagerly into plans for the bridge-building, Friedel
drew more and more into his old world of musings; and many a summer afternoon was spent by
him at the Ptarmigan's Mere, in deep communings with himself, as one revolving a purpose.

Christina could not but observe, with a strange sense of foreboding, that, while one son was
more than ever in the lonely mountain heights, the other was far more at the base.  Master
Moritz Schleiermacher was a constant guest at the castle, and Ebbo was much taken up with his
companionship.  He was a strong, shrewd man, still young, but with much experience, and he
knew how to adapt himself to intercourse with the proud nobility, preserving an independent
bearing, while avoiding all that haughtiness could take umbrage at; and thus he was acquiring
a greater influence over Ebbo than was perceived by any save the watchful mother, who began
to fear lest her son was acquiring an infusion of worldly wisdom and eagerness for gain that
would indeed be a severance between him and his brother.

