No. 197.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 6.      124

  QUERIES:--
  Delft Manufacture, by O. Morgan      125

  MINOR QUERIES:--The Withered Hand and Motto
  "Utinam"--History of York--"Hauling over the
  coals"--Dr. Butler and St. Edmund's Bury--Washington--Norman
  of Winster--Sir Arthur Aston--"Jamieson
  the Piper"--"Keiser Glomer"--Tieck's
  "Comoedia Divina"--Fossil Trees between Cairo and
  Suez: Stream like that in Bay of Argastoli--Presbyterian
  Titles--Mayors and Sheriffs--The Beauty of
  Buttermere--Sheer Hulk--The Lapwing or Peewitt
  (Vanellus cristatus)--"Could we with ink," &c.--Launching
  Query--Manliness      125

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Pues or Pews--"Jerningham"
  and "Doveton"      127

  REPLIES:--
  Battle of Villers en Couché, by T. C. Smith, &c.      127
  Snail-eating, by John Timbs, &c.      128
  Inscription near Cirencester, by P. H. Fisher, &c.      129
  Curious Custom of ringing Bells for the Dead, by the
  Rev. H. T. Ellacombe and R. W. Elliot      130
  Who first thought of Table-turning? by John Macray      131
  Scotchmen in Poland      131
  Anticipatory Use of the Cross, by Eden Warwick      132

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Glass Chambers
  for Photography--Dr. Diamond's Replies--Trial of
  Lenses--Is it dangerous to use the Ammonio-Nitrate
  of Silver?      133

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Burke's Marriage--The
  House of Falahill--Descendants of Judas Iscariot--Milton's
  Widow--Whitaker's Ingenious Earl--Are
  White Cats deaf?--Consecrated Roses--The Reformed
  Faith--House-marks--Trash--Adamsoniana--Portrait
  of Cromwell--Burke's "Mighty Boar of
  the Forest"--"Amentium haud Amantium"--Talleyrand's
  Maxim--English Bishops deprived by Queen
  Elizabeth--Gloves at Fairs--St. Dominic--Names of
  Plants--Specimens of Foreign English, &c.      134

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c.      138
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted       138
  Notices to Correspondents      138
  Advertisements      139

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

HIGH CHURCH AND LOW CHURCH.

A Universal History of Party; with the Origin of Party Names[1] would form an acceptable addition
to literary history: "N. & Q." has contributed towards such a work some disquisitions on our
party names Whig and Tory, and The Good Old Cause. Such names as Puritan, Malignant, Evangelical[2],
can be traced up to their first commencement, but some obscurity hangs on the mintage-date
of the names we are about to consider.

As a matter of fact, the distinction of High Church and Low Church always existed in the Reformed
English Church, and the history of these parties would be her history. But the names were not
coined till the close of the seventeenth century, and were not stamped in full relief as party-names
till the first year of Queen Anne's reign.

In October, 1702, Anne's first Parliament and Convocation assembled:

    "From the deputies in Convocation at this period, the appellations
    High Church and Low Church originated, and they were afterwards
    used to distinguish the clergy. It is singular that the bishops[3] were
    ranked among {118} the Low Churchmen (see Burnet, v. 138.; Calamy, i.
    643.; Tindal's Cont., iv. 591.)"--Lathbury's Hist. of the
    Convocation, Lond. 1842, p. 319.

Mr. Lathbury is a very respectable authority in matters of this kind, but if he use "originated"
in its strict sense, I am inclined to think he is mistaken; as I am tolerably certain that
I have met with the words several years before 1702. At the moment, however, I cannot lay my
hands on a passage to support this assertion.

The disputes in Convocation gave rise to a number of pamphlets, such as A Caveat against High
Church, Lond. 1702, and The Low Churchmen vindicated from the unjust Imputation of being No
Churchmen, in Answer to a Pamphlet called "The Distinction of High and Low Church considered:"
Lond. 1706, 8vo. Dr. Sacheverell's trial gave additional zest to the dudgeon ecclesiastick,
and produced a shower of pamphlets. I give the title of one of them: Pulpit War, or Dr. S----l,
the High Church Trumpet, and Mr. H----ly, the Low Church Drum, engaged by way of Dialogue,
Lond. 1710, 8vo.

To understand the cause of the exceeding bitterness and virulence which animated the parties
denominated High Church and Low Church, we must remember that until the time of William of
Orange, the Church of England, as a body--her sovereigns and bishops, her clergy and laity--comes
under the former designation; while those who sympathised with the Dissenters were comparatively
few and weak. As soon as William was head of the Church, he opened the floodgates of Puritanism,
and admitted into the church what previously had been more or less external to it. This element,
thus made part and parcel of the Anglican Church, was denominated Low Church. William supplanted
the bishops and clergy who refused to take oaths of allegiance to him as king de jure; and
by putting Puritans in their place, made the latter the dominant party. Add to this the feelings
of exasperation produced by the murder of Charles I., and the expulsion of the Stuarts, and
we have sufficient grounds, political and religious, for an irreconcilable feud. Add, again,
the reaction resulting from the overthrow of the tyrannous hot-bed and forcing-system, where
a sham conformity was maintained by coercion; and the Church-Papist, as well as the Church-Puritans,
with ill-concealed hankering after the mass and the preaching-house, by penal statutes were
forced to do what their souls abhorred, and play the painful farce of attending the services
of "The Establishment."

A writer in a High Church periodical of 1717 (prefacing his article with the passage from Proverbs
vi. 27.) proceeds:

    "The old way of attacking the Church of England was by mobs and
    bullies, and hard sounds; by calling Whore, and Babylon, upon our
    worship and liturgy, and kicking out our clergy as dumb dogs: but now
    they have other irons in the fire; a new engine is set up under the
    cloak and disguise of temper, unity, comprehension, and the Protestant
    religion. Their business now is not to storm the Church, but to lull
    it to sleep: to make us relax our care, quit our defences, and neglect
    our safety.... These are the politics of their Popish fathers: when
    they had tried all other artifices, they at last resolved to sow
    schism and division in the Church: and from thence sprang up this very
    generation, who by a fine stratagem endeavoured to set us one against
    the other, and they gather up the stakes. Hence the distinction of
    High and Low Church."--The Scourge, p. 251.

In another periodical of the same date, in the Dedication "To the most famous University of
Oxford," the writer says:

    "These enemies of our religious and civil establishment have
    represented you as instillers of slavish doctrines and principles ...
    if to give to God and Cæsar his due be such tow'ring, and High Church
    principles, I am sure St. Peter and St. Paul will scarce escape being
    censured for Tories and Highflyers."--The Entertainer, Lond.
    1717.

    "If those who have kept their first love, and whose robes have not been
    defiled, endeavour to stop these innovations and corruptions that their
    enemies would introduce, they are blackened for High Church Papists,
    favourers of I know not who, and fall under the public
    resentment."--Ib. p. 301.

I shall now give a few extracts from Low Church writers (quoted in The Scourge), who thus designate
their opponents:

    "A pack or party of scandalous, wicked, and profane men, who
    appropriate to themselves the name of High Church (but may more
    properly be said to be Jesuits or Papists in masquerade), do take
    liberty to teach, preach, and print, publickly and privately, sedition,
    contentions, and divisions among the Protestants of this
    kingdom."--Motives to Union, p. 1.

    "These men glory in their being members of the High Church (Popish
    appellation, and therefore they are the more fond of that); but these
    pretended sons are become her persecutors, and they exercise their
    spite and lies both on the living and the dead."--The Snake in the
    Grass brought to Light, p. 8.

    {119}

    "Our common people of the High Church are as ignorant in matters of
    religion as the bigotted Papists, which gives great advantage to our
    Jacobite and Tory priests to lead them where they please, or to mould
    them into what shapes they please."--Reasons for an Union, p. 39.

    "The minds of the populace are too much debauched already from their
    loyalty by seditious arts of the High Church faction."--Convocation
    Craft, p. 34.

    "We may see how closely our present Highflyers pursue the steps of
    their Popish predecessors, in reckoning those who dispute the usurped
    power of the Church to be hereticks, schismaticks, or what else they
    please."--Ib. p. 30.

    "All the blood that has been spilt in the late unnatural rebellion, may
    be very justly laid at the doors of the High Church
    clergy."--Christianity no Creature of the State, p. 16.

    "We see what the Tory Priesthood were made of in Queen Elizabeth's
    time, that they were ignorant, lewd, and seditious: and it must be said
    of 'em that they are true to the stuff still."--Toryism the Worst of
    the Two, p. 21.

    "The Tories and High Church, notwithstanding their pretences to
    loyalty, will be found by their actions to be the greatest rebels in
    nature."--Reasons for an Union, p. 20.

Sir W. Scott, in his Life of Dryden, Lond.
                  Life, 3rd edit. 1834, p. 272.

I quote this passage partly because it gives Sir Walter's interpretation of that obscure passage
in Lycidas, respecting which I made a Query (Vol. ii., p. 246.), but chiefly as a preface to
the remark that in James II.'s reign, and at the time these party names originated, the Roman
Catholics were in league with the Puritans or Low Church party against the High Churchmen,
which increased the acrimony of both parties.

In those days religion was politics, and politics religion, with most of the belligerents.
Swift, however, as if he wished to be thought an exception to the general rule, chose one party
for its politics and the other for its religion.

    "Swift carried into the ranks of the Whigs the opinions and scruples of
    a High Church clergyman... Such a distinction between opinions in
    Church and State has not frequently existed: the High Churchmen being
    usually Tories, and the Low Church divines universally
    Whigs."--Scott's Life, 2nd edit.: Edin. 1824, p. 76.

See Swift's Discourse of the Contests and Dissensions between the Nobles and Commons of Athens
and Rome: Lond. 1701.

In his quaint Argument against abolishing Christianity, Lond.

Scott says of the Tale of a Tub:

    "The main purpose is to trace the gradual corruptions of the Church of
    Rome, and to exalt the English Reformed Church at the expense both of
    the Roman Catholic and Presbyterian establishments. It was written with
    a view to the interests of the High Church party."--Life, p. 84.

Most men will concur with Jeffrey, who observes:

    "It is plain, indeed, that Swift's High Church principles were all
    along but a part of his selfishness and ambition; and meant nothing
    else, than a desire to raise the consequence of the order to which he
    happened to belong. If he had been a layman, we have no doubt he would
    have treated the pretensions of the priesthood as he treated the
    persons of all priests who were opposed to him, with the most bitter
    and irreverent disdain."--Ed. Rev., Sept. 1846.

The following lines are from a squib of eight stanzas which occurs in the works of Jonathan
Smedley, and are said to have been fixed on the door of St. Patrick's Cathedral on the day
of Swift's instalment (see Scott, p. 174.):

 "For High Churchmen and policy,
  He swears he prays most hearty;
  But would pray back again to be
  A Dean of any party."

This reminds us of the Vicar of Bray, of famous memory, who, if I recollect aright, commenced
his career thus:

 "In good King Charles's golden days,
      When loyalty no harm meant,
  A zealous High Churchman I was,
      And so I got preferment."

How widely different are the men we see classed under the title High Churchmen! Evelyn and
Walton[4], the gentle, the Christian; the arrogant Swift, and the restless Atterbury.

It is difficult to prevent my note running beyond the limits of "N. & Q.," with the ample {120}
materials I have to select from; but I cannot wind up without a definition; so here are two:

    "Mr. Thelwall says that he told a pious old lady, who asked him the
    difference between High Church and Low Church, 'The High Church
    place the Church alcove Christ, the Low Church place Christ above the
    Church.' About a hundred years ago, that very same question was asked
    of the famous South:--'Why,' said he, 'the High Church are those who
    think highly of the Church, and lowly of themselves; the Low Church are
    those who think highly of themselves, and lowly of the Church."--Rev.
    H. Newland's Lecture on Tractarianism, Lond. 1852, p. 68.

The most celebrated High Churchmen who lived in the last century, are Dr. South, Dr. Samuel
Johnson, Rev. Wm. Jones of Nayland, Bp. Horne, Bp. Wilson, and Bp. Horsley. See a long passage
on "High Churchmen" in a charge of the latter to the clergy of St. David's in the year 1799,
pp. 34. 37. See also a charge of Bp. Atterbury (then Archdeacon of Totnes) to his clergy in 1703.

JARLTZBERG.

[Footnote 1: There is a book called History of Party, from the Rise of the Whig and Tory Factions
Chas. II. to the Passing of the Reform Bill, by G. W. Cooke: Lond. 1836-37, 3 vols. 8vo.; but,
as the title shows, it is limited in scope.]

[Footnote 2: See Haweis's Sermons on Evangelical Principles and Practice: Lond. 1763, 8vo.;
The True Churchmen ascertained; or, An Apology for those of the Regular Clergy of the Establishment,
who are sometimes called Evangelical Ministers: occasioned by the Publications of Drs. Paley,
Hey, Croft; Messrs. Daubeny, Ludlam, Polwhele, Fellowes; the Reviewers, &c.: by John Overton,
A. B., York, 1802, 8vo., 2nd edit. See also the various memoirs of Whitfield, Wesley, &c.;
and Sir J. Stephens Essays on "The Clapham Sect" and "The Evangelical Succession."]

