No race of thinkers can ever be enslaved. Hitherto we have been too unreflecting, too much
governed by momentary impulses, too much carried away by party cries and unhealthy enthusiasm,
and hence completely beneath the sway of designing demagogues. We have left the politicians
to do our thinking for us, and accepted too unhesitatingly their interested dicta as our rules
of political action. The press has hitherto led the people, and so mighty an engine of political
power has been eagerly seized and controlled by party leaders as a means of accomplishing their
ends. All this will be done away with. We shall do our thinking for ourselves, and those who
shall hereafter be put forward as the prominent actors upon the great stage of politics will
become, what they have never before been save in name, the servants of the people. The press
of America, like that of England, must hereafter follow, not lead, the sentiments of the nation.
And while true 'freedom of the press' will be religiously conserved, that unrestrained license
which has always too much characterized it will be restrained and brought within its true limits,
not by statutes or brute force, but by the much more powerful agency of public opinion--by
the danger of tampering with the cherished and elevated sentiments of the reading masses.

And as a result of this newborn faculty of thought, we shall see the disappearance of extreme
views and the birth of charity in our midst. Men will give due weight to the opinions and respect
more the natural prejudices of their fellows. While ultra conservatism is the rust which eats
away the nation's life, radicalism is the oxygen in which it consumes itself too rapidly away.
Or perhaps, a better simile would be found in the components of atmospheric air--nitrogen and
oxygen; the one a non-supporter of combustion, the other giving it a too dazzling brilliancy
at the expense of the material upon which it feeds; yet both, properly combined, so as in a
measure to neutralize each other, supporting the steady and enduring flame which gives forth
a mild and cheering light and heat, neither dazzling nor scorching. So conservatism and radicalism,
properly intermingled and exercising a restraining influence upon each other, are the very
life of a great and free people. And never, in the history of the world, have these principles
been more thoroughly demonstrated, more clearly manifested to the eyes of even the unlearned
and humble, than in the present war, in which one or the other of these two great mental phases
has been the originator of every great movement, to make no mention of the palpable effect,
now appearing upon the face of society, of their action in the past. And hence, in the future,
we shall see in a noble, far-reaching, broadly spreading, heaven-aspiring conservative radicalism
the prevailing characteristic of American life and progress.

Hitherto the very prime principle of self-government, an intelligent cognizance of public affairs
and a reflective insight into the fundamental principles of liberty, has been totally neglected
in our land. And if the events of these years shall really teach our people to think--I care
not how erroneously at first, for the very exercise of the God-given faculty will soon teach
us to discriminate between true and false deductions, and restore Thought to her native empire,--then
the blood and treasure we have so lavishly poured out, the trembling and the mourning, the
trials, the toils, and the privations we have suffered, even the mighty shock which the society
of the whole civilized world has received, will be but a small price to pay for the blessing
we shall have gained, and our future prosperity will have been easily purchased even at so
tremendous a cost. God grant it may be so.

There is no land on earth where treason may work with such impunity as in our own. And this
is owing as well to the greater latitude conceded to political speculations by the very nature
of our system, as to the fact that our ancestors, having, as they thought, effectually destroyed
all those incentives to treason which exist in more despotic lands, and little anticipating
the new motives which might with changing men and times spring up in our midst, neglected to
ordain the preventives and remedies for a disease which they imagined could never flourish
in our healthy atmosphere. And while they imposed an inadequate penalty, they at the same time
made so difficult the proof of this the greatest of crimes, that when at last the monster reared
its head and stalked boldly through the land, there was no power to check or destroy it. It
will be ours to see, in the future, that this impunity is taken away from this worse than parricide,
and that, while a more awful penalty is affixed to the crime, the plotter shall be as amenable
to the law and as easy to be convicted as he who takes the murderous weapon in his hands.

And for the accomplishment of this and similar ends, doubtless greater power will be conceded
by the States to the Federal Government. The day has gone by when the people were frightened
at the bare idea of giving to the central Government the necessary power to maintain its own
integrity. The pernicious doctrine of State sovereignty as paramount to the national, has in
this war received its deathblow at the hands of those who have always been its most zealous
supporters. The South, starting out upon the very basis of this greatest political heresy of
our age, had no sooner taken the initiatory step in severing completely all the ties and bonds
which held them to the Union, than they discarded the very doctrine which had been their strongest
weapon in forcing their people to revolt: well knowing that no government founded upon such
a basis could stand for a single year; that the upholding of such a principle was neither more
nor less than political suicide. And though at the commencement of our struggle there were
many at the North in whose minds the dogma had taken deep root, few are found to-day to uphold
the pernicious doctrine, and those few men of more than questionable loyalty. And not this
principle only, but every other which is inconsistent with republican ideas, antagonistic to
the growth of the giant plant of human freedom, has come to its death at the hands of the god
of war. Great commotions are the test of great ideas, and that principle either of government
or of human action which can withstand the shock of such an upheaving as the present, and come
unharmed through the war of such conflicting elements, may well claim our support as founded
in eternal truth. The penetrating glance of human intellect, sharpened by the perilous exigencies
of the times, and by the quick succession of startling events, even as the inventive faculties
are said to be rendered more acute by the presence of danger, at such times sees clearly the
fallacies which perhaps have blinded mankind for years, and recognizes, with unerring certainty,
the misfortunes and disasters of to-day as the evil effects of theories which aforetime were
only considered capable of good.

And with these theories must inevitably fall their supporters and promulgators. The men who
have persistently misled the public mind and falsified the experience of the past as well as
the deductions of abstract reasoning, and who, consequently, if not the originators, are at
least the aggravators, of all our misfortunes, need expect no mercy at the hands of the people.
They must share the fate of their doctrines, and consent to be quietly shelved, buried beyond
the hope of a resurrection: and it is to be hoped that their places will be filled by good,
earnest, and true men, who have proved themselves devoted to the cause of our country's advancement
rather than to that of personal preferment. In this war, the men of the future must make their
record, and whenever they shall come before the people for the posts of honor and distinction,
they will be judged according as they have to-day sacrificed personal prejudices and partisan
feeling upon the altar of unity and freedom. For years to come the first question concerning
a candidate will be, Was he loyal in the troublous times? was he earnest and true? There will
be no distinction between the truly loyal Democrat and the earnest Republican. Those who have
to-day stood shoulder to shoulder in the common cause will, whatever may be their difference
in shades of opinion, be sworn friends in the future; while he who has in these times been
only noted for a carping, cavilling spirit, for activity in endeavors to hamper and thwart
the constituted authorities in their efforts to restore and maintain the integrity of the Government,
will to their dying day wear the damning mark of Cain upon their brows: their record will bear
a stain which no subsequent effort can wipe away. And though in the days to come other exciting
questions will arise to divide the people into strongly opposing parties, which, indeed, are
necessary to all true national life, preserving the balance of political power, acting as a
check upon injudicious and interested legislation, and, above all, evolving truths by the very
attrition of conflicting ideas, yet the intimate association of the past, bringing about a
thorough acquaintance with the virtues and patriotism of the great mass of those who profess
radically different ideas and opinions, as well as the wearing off of the sharp corners of
those ideas themselves by a closer and more impartial observation, will tend to smooth away
the asperities of partisan conflict, and beget greater charity and more respect for the opposing
opinions of others, based upon a knowledge of the purity of intention and loftiness of purpose
of political opponents. The evils of sectional feeling and sectional legislation, so clearly
manifested in present events, will be avoided in the future, as the Maelstrom current which
sucks in the stoutest bark to inevitable destruction: and while we shall still retain that
natural love of home which binds us most closely to the place of our abode, the principle will
be recognized that the well-being of the whole can only lie in the soundness and prosperity
of each particular part, and we shall know no dividing lines in our love of country, but all
become members of one great brotherhood, citizens of one common and united country. The experience
of the past will teach us to religiously avoid the snares and pitfalls that beset our path,
the hidden rocks and shoals upon which our bark had wellnigh stranded; and the science of politics
will henceforward have a broader sweep, a loftier appreciation of national responsibility,
a purer benevolence, a sublimer philanthropy.

Among the influences which will greatly modify the future of American politics, not the least
is the lately enacted banking law. Hitherto we have been divided in our finances as no nation
ever was before. Every individual State has had not only its own system of banking, but its
own separate and distinct currency; a currency oftentimes based upon an insufficient security,
and possessing only a local par value. The traveller who would journey from one portion of
the country to another was driven to the alternative of converting his funds into bills of
exchange, or of shopping from broker to broker to procure the currency of the particular localities
which he proposed to visit. Not to mention the inconvenience of such a state of things, it
is productive of many dire evils, which it is not my purpose to enumerate, since they are already
familiar to the majority of my readers. Suffice it to say that such a diversity in a point
so vital to all enlightened nations, is antagonistic to the very spirit of our institutions,
under a government whose existence depends upon the principle of unity, in a land whose prosperity
depends upon the consolidation of all its constituent parts into one homogeneous whole. Not
only is this diversity in the money market forever destroyed by the establishment of a uniform
currency, but from the peculiar nature of the law, the stability of the Government is made
a matter of direct self-interest to every individual citizen, than which no surer or more enduring
bond of union can be devised. For self-interest, the Archimedean lever that moves the world,
loses no jot of its influence when even honor and patriotism have withered away. Every dollar
of the security upon which the currency is based must be deposited in the treasury vaults:
in other words, the wealth of every individual citizen is under Government lock and key. Should,
then, in the future, any misguided portion of our people see fit to withdraw from our communion,
irretrievable ruin not only stares them in the face, but is actually upon them from the moment
the bond is severed. On the one side is devotion to the country, and a firm, secure currency,
which at any moment will bring its full value in gold; on the other, secession, with the inevitable
attendant of a circulation, not depreciated, but utterly worthless, and that, too, with no
other to fill its place, since the operation of the law must soon drive out of existence every
dollar of the present local bank circulation: patriotism and prosperity arrayed against rebellion
and ruin. The business men all see this, and in the event of any threatened disruption, they,
the most influential part of community, because controlling that which is the representative
of all value, will be found firm and unwavering on the side of the duly constituted authority.
Thus we shall have all the benefits of a funded national debt, with none of its attendant evils.
And what a bond of union is this!--a bond which involves our very meat and drink, a bond which
there can be no possible motive to sever so powerful as the incentive to union and mutual coöperation.

Again, the financial crises with which our country has been afflicted at regular periods of
her existence, lowering thousands at one moment from a condition of ease and comfort to one
of the most pinching want, changing merchant princes to beggars, and spreading ruin far and
wide, have owed their origin, not to a wild spirit of speculation, but to the over inflation
of bank issues, which is itself the cause of that reckless speculation. This evil, too, will
be done away with in the future, for the issue must and will be regulated by the demands of
the community. The Government, in whose hands are the securities, and who furnish the circulation
based thereon, will control this matter and restrain the issue to its proper bounds. And even
if it should run beyond that point, there will be less danger, since there can be no spurious
basis, every dollar being secured by a tangible deposit in the Government vaults. The only
escape from this view is in open and barefaced fraud, which will be easy of conviction, and
no more to be feared than the ordinary operations of counterfeiters, and which will be effectually
provided against. So carefully drawn are the provisions of the bill that no loophole is left
for speculation; and he who shall hereafter succeed in flooding the country with a 'wildcat'
currency, will be a shrewder financier and a more accomplished villain than the world has yet
seen. The people, too, will repose such a confidence in the banks as they have never done before.
We shall hear little hereafter of 'runs upon the banks;' for the currency holders, well knowing
that the Government holds in its hands the wherewithal to redeem the greater portion of the
circulation of every bank in the land in the event of the closing of its doors, the only 'runs'
will be upon the deposits, and this only in cases of the grossest and most patent fraud and
mismanagement on the part of the banks themselves. Hence, in times of financial peril we shall
see the people combining to sustain the banks of their own locality, rather than, as is the
case to-day, hastening to accelerate the ruin of perfectly solvent institutions which, but
for their ill-timed fright, might weather the storm. Again I say, there could be no greater
element of union and strength than this, which has grown out of our necessities and tribulations.
In spite of all the confusion and ruin and bloodshed, in spite of all the mourning, and suffering,
and sundering of ties, and upheaving of the very foundations and apparent total disruption
of American society, no greater blessing could have befallen us than this same war, which has
roused us to a new life, to the consciousness of defects and determination of reform, thereby
planting us firmly on the true road to prosperity and happiness and power.

