Mrs. Gordon and Bessie walked among the houses, noticing the peculiar names which adorned some
of them, and, indeed, going inside one of the oldest where a step-ladder was used for the boys
of the household to get up into their little room. They crossed the bridge which led them to
the Sunset Heights where some new houses, in keeping with the style of the old ones, were being
built. They were pleased to see this unity of design, rather than the modern cottage which
had intruded itself upon that coast. In their walk they learned that about eleven or twelve
families spent the winter at 'Sconset. The air was intensely invigorating, so much so that
Mrs. Gordon, who was no walker at home, was surprised at herself with what she was doing without
fatigue. Later they found Mr. Gordon looking at the new church which had just been completed,
and which he had ascertained was built for no sectarian purpose, but for the preaching of the
truth. They all met at noon for their lunch, after which they went a mile and a half farther
to visit the Sankaty Head light-house, the best one of the five on the island. The keeper kindly
escorted them up the fifty-six steps to the top, where they learned that the point of the light
was one hundred and sixty-five feet above the level of the sea. He gave them some more facts
relative to the light, interspersed with personal experiences. Tom said that he should remember
particularly the fact that he told him that this light-house would be the first one that he
should see whenever he should come home from a European trip.

Two hours later they were relating their pleasant experiences in the dining-room of their boarding-house,
while enjoying the delicious blue-fish which gratified their hunger. As for Miss Ray her anticipations
had been realized; and that night she wrote to a certain young man in Boston that she knew
of no place in America where they could be more by themselves and away from the world, when
their happy time should come in the following summer, than at 'Sconset.

The next afternoon found them all listening to Mrs. McCleave, as she faithfully exhibited the
many interesting curiosities of her museum, in her home on Main street. Mrs. Gordon was very
much interested in the Cedar Vase, so rich with its "pleasant associations," while Bessie was
delighted with the beautiful carved ivory, with its romantic story as told by its owner. Miss
Ray considered Mrs. McCleave, with her benevolent face, her good ancestry, and her eager desire
to learn and impart, a good specimen of the well-preserved Nantucket woman.

Through the courtesy of their hostess they were privileged, on their way back, to visit the
house of Miss Coleman, on Centre street, there to see the wonderful wax figure of a baby six
months old, said to be the likeness of the Dauphin of France, the unfortunate son of Louis
XVI. When Mrs. Gordon learned that this was brought to Nantucket in 1786, by one of her own
sea-captains, she became very much excited over it. As she realized then that her knowledge
of French history was too meagre to fully understand its historical import, although she appreciated
its artistic value, she determined that another winter should be partially devoted to that
study. So she added "French history" to "Camels," "Light-houses," "Navigation," and "Indians,"
which were already in her note-book. She had added "Indians" the day before when her interest
in them had been quickened by some accounts of the civilization of the early Indians in Nantucket,
which seemed to her almost unprecedented in American history. After supper Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
went out in a row-boat to enjoy the moonlight evening, Tom went to the skating-rink, Miss Ray
spent the evening with some friends at the Ocean House near by, while Bessie went out for a
moonlight sail with some friends from a western city, whom, she said, she had "discovered,
not made." Her appreciation of a fine rendering of her favorite Raff Cavatina by a talented
young gentleman of the party, soon after her arrival, had been the means of bringing together
these two souls on the musical heights, which afterwards had led to an introduction to the
other members of the party, all of whom she had enjoyed during the week that had passed. And
now, with these newly-found friends, on this perfect July evening, with its full moon and fresh
south-westerly breeze, in the new yacht "Lucile," she found perfect enjoyment. Pleasant stories
were related, and one fish-story was allowed, to give spice to the occasion. After a little
more than two hours' sail they found themselves returning to the Nantucket town, which, in
the moonlight, presented a pretty appearance.

The next day, Saturday, Mr. Gordon and Tom started early to sail around the island, with an
intention of landing on the adjoining island, Tuckernuck. Tom had calculated that it would
be quite a sail, for he knew that Nantucket Island was fourteen miles long, and averaged four
miles in width; and his father had decided that such a trip would give him a better idea of
the island's best points for building purposes. On their return at night they found that the
ladies had spent a pleasant day, bathing, riding, and visiting some Boston friends who were
stopping at the Springfield House, a short distance from them. Bessie had found more pleasure
in the company of the young musician and his friends, having attended one of the morning musicales
which they were accustomed to have by themselves In the hall of the Athenæum. Tom and his father
had much to tell of their day's pleasure.

Mr. Gordon, for once in his life, felt the longing which he knew had so often possessed his
wife, to go back and live in the years gone by; for if he could now transfer himself to the
year 1659, he might buy this whole island of Thomas Mayhew for thirty pounds and two beaver
hats. What a lost opportunity for a good business investment! As it was, however, some valuable
notes were added to his note-book, suggested by the trip, which time alone will give to the
world. He was more and more convinced that the future well-being of Nantucket was more in the
hands of real-estate brokers and summer pleasure-seekers, than in those of the manufacturers,
agriculturists, or even the fishing men as of old. He could see no other future for her, and
he should work accordingly. His chief regret was that the island was so barren of trees.

They spent the next day, Sunday, in attending church, as they had planned, and in pleasant
conversation and rest preparatory to their departure for Boston on the following morning. They
expressed gratitude that they had not been prevented by sickness or by one rainy day from carrying
out all the plans which had been laid for the ten days. Mrs. Gordon very much regretted that
they had not seen the famous Folger clock which was to be seen at the house of a descendant
of Walter Folger, the maker of it. She should certainly see it the first thing, if she ever
were in Nantucket again; for she considered the man, who, unaided, could make such a clock,
the greatest mechanical genius that ever lived. She felt this still more when she was told
that the clock could not be mended until there could be found a mechanic who was also an astronomer.

At seven o'clock the next morning they were all on board the steamer, as she left the old town
of Nantucket in the distance. Mrs. Gordon looked longingly back at Brant Point, which she still
felt was the best spot on the island; while Bessie eagerly watched for the little flag which
a certain young gentleman was yet waving from the wharf.

At half-past one they were in Boston, and an hour later at their suburban home, all delighted
with their short stay in Nantucket. They felt that they had seen about all that there was to
be seen there, and they were glad to have visited the island before it should be clothed with
more modern garments.

[Footnote 2: Copyright 1885, by Elizabeth Porter Gould.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A BIRTHDAY SONNET.

By George W. Bungay.

  Our days are like swift shuttles in the loom,
  In which time weaves the warp and woof of fate;
  Its varied threads that interpenetrate
  The pattern woven, picture bride and groom,
  A life-like scene in their own happy home.
  There are some frayed and shaded strands, fair Kate,
  But lines of purest gold illuminate
  Our wedded lot, as stars the heavenly dome,
  And come what may, sunshine or chilling rain,
  Prosperity and peace or woe instead,
  Untruth and selfishness shall never stain
  The web of love and hope illustrated.
  Not even death unravels when we die,
  The woven work approved of God on high.

GREEK MEETS GREEK.

It was two weeks after the scene at Colonel Archdale's dinner-party. There was quite a knot
of people in Madam Pepperell's drawing-room. All the household at Seascape had come on the
way home from a drive to pay a morning visit here, and found the in-door coolness refreshing.
Colonel Archdale, who had joined his son, was there also. Mr. Royal, as it happened, was in
Portsmouth that morning.

Edmonson had been exemplary enough in avoiding the cant of pretended regret for what must have
given him pleasure. Archdale had no complaints to make on that score, but he distrusted Edmonson
more and more, and perceived more clearly that he was attracted by Elizabeth. He wondered if
she encouraged him: that was not like the person she seemed to be; yet why not? She had assured
Archdale more than once that she was free, and her certainty had given him comfort. But he
was here this morning for another purpose than to weigh the question of Miss Royal's fancy.
If she did encourage Edmonson she was all the more inexplicable.

Stephen bent over Lady Dacre's chair, talking gayly to her; yet his eyes wandered every now
and then, and, gradually, after he had stopped several times beside one and another, he came
up to Elizabeth, as she was sitting listening to a young lady who, with her brother, had come
back from town with Madam Pepperell, the night before, to spend a few days at the house.

As Stephen stood behind her chair he looked across the room, and saw Edmonson leaning with
folded arms against a window. The light fell over his face; he had been looking at Elizabeth,
but his eyes met Archdale's at once with an expression meant for cool scrutiny and a dash of
insolent triumph at the victory he had scored. Edmonson's fierceness was not easily fettered;
the dark shadow in his heart darted over his face, and, withdrawing as hastily, left to view
a light that blazed in his eyes and only slowly died down into the cordial warmth necessary
between guest and host, even under peculiar circumstances. Stephen's face darkened also, but
his feeling was less, and his control greater. Elizabeth was listening quietly to some account
of a merry-making at which Katie must have been present, for her name occurred frequently in
the narrative. As she perceived that Archdale was behind her she looked round at him a moment,
and by a few words included him in the conversation. She was as entertaining as usual and rather
more talkative after he came. Yet he thought that under her ease of manner he detected a current
of nervousness that made him the more anxious to carry out the purpose with which he had come
to her.

But it was not easy to find any excuse for withdrawing her from the circle in which she had
made herself so welcome. At last, however, under cover of a general movement, which he had
secretly instigated, he succeeded in getting her into the library, on the plea of a message
to her father. When there, he closed the door behind him, and said:--

"I have a message to your father, it is true, Mistress Royal, but it is only to beg him to
interfere."

"Interfere?" she echoed with a nervousness that this time was unmistakable.

"Pray be seated," he said, drawing a chair toward her as she stood by the mantel.

"Thank you, but--I don't mind standing. What you--the business will not take long, you said."

"As you please." And he stood facing her on the opposite side of the great fireplace.

She heard his tones, glanced at him, and sat down. He took a chair also, still placing himself
so that he could watch her. She grew plainly more nervous.

"Who is Mr. Hartly?" he asked, abruptly.

She looked at him in a frightened way, and the hand that she lifted to her throat was trembling.

"He is"--she began, then she stopped; without any warning her expression and her manner changed,
for with the coming of what she had dreaded came the strength to meet it. There was no more
tremulousness of voice or hand, and the face that looked at Stephen Archdale was the face of
a woman who met him upon equal terms; yet, as he looked at her steadily, he was not quite sure
even of that; it seemed to him that it would require an effort on his part to keep at her level;
that at least he must stand at his full height. She sat silent, meeting his steady gaze. There
was a dignity about her that would have been haughtiness but for her simplicity. Even her dress
carried out the effect of this simplicity; it was a white muslin, very plain, and the single
pink hollyhock that the new guest had slipped into her hair, and Elizabeth had forgotten, gave
to her attire the touch of warmth that something in her face showed, too. It was to Stephen
the calmness of flesh and blood, not of marble, that he was looking at; a possibility of life
and motion was there, but a possibility beyond his reach. Some one might arouse her; to him
she was impassive.

"You've not finished your sentence," he said, coldly.

"Why should I? You know the rest of it."

"Nevertheless, I wish you would say it."

"Very well. Mr. Hartly is an agent of Mr. Peterborough."

"And Mr. Peterborough?"

"My solicitor."

"You mean your father's?"

"Yes, and mine, too."

"Then you have property of your own?"

"Yes. You did not know it?"

"I heard of it yesterday. Your property is no concern of mine, you understand." She was silent.
Under the circumstances the statement was significant. "Mr. Hartly came to my father the other
day," he went on. Still no answer. "Possibly you knew it?" he persisted. She lifted her eyes
which had been fixed on the cover of a book that her fingers were toying with, and said:--

"Yes."

Stephen waited to choose words which should not express too forcibly the impetuous feeling
that shone in his eyes and rang in his voice when he spoke.

"Let me put a case to you," he said, "or, rather, not an indifferent case, but our own, and
hear how it sounds in plain English. How we were married, if married we are, it is useless
to speak of; how absolutely nothing we are to one another it is unnecessary also to say. I
appreciate your efforts and your courtesy when I see so plainly that it is with difficulty
you can bring yourself even to speak a word to me." Elizabeth glanced up a moment, and down
again, and her fingers went on idly turning the leaves of the book. "When I see what social
powers you have," he pursued, "I assure you that I shall regret it for you if fate have denied
you a better choice. But at all events" (constrainedly), "I must thank you for the gracious
and successful manner in which you have kept suspicion from becoming certainty before time
proves it so."

She looked fully at him this time, and smiled.

"Gratitude comes hard to you," she said. "There is no cause for it in anything I have ever
done. You may be sure it was not to please you at all, but to gratify something in myself that
demanded satisfaction. Now, please explain to me what you mean by your extraordinary summary
of things we know too well, and how I have offended you when I am really your friend--yours,
and "--She stopped, a smile flitted over her face and was gone; it revealed for the unnamed
person a gentleness and an affection that perhaps she did not care to have her tones betray.

"Yes, you have offended me," he said. "I have no right to comment on your actions in general."

"None whatever."

"But what I do have a right to demand is an explanation from you of conduct so strange as to
be unaccountable."

She flushed a little.

"It's not pleasant," she answered, "when one has done the best that opened up to be told that
it's unaccountable conduct."

"Then it was you? I was sure of it." She looked at him earnestly.

"Why should there be any beating about the bush?" she answered. "I should like it better if
you need never have known; but, since you were sure to find it out sooner or later, it might
as well come now. What I have done is wise and right, the most satisfactory thing to me, and
to others wiser than I. But I wish you would never speak of it."

"Never speak of your coming forward with your whole fortune to make up the loss that this fellow's
claim will be to us? Never speak of it!" cried Archdale. "And accept it? From you? You certainly
have a flattering opinion of me."

"If it were like any business losses," she said, "it would be different. But this is something
nobody could have been prepared for; it needs something outside of the routine to meet it."
She waited a moment. "Will you put your case, as you said you were going to do?" she asked.
"It will make it clearer, and you will see that there is nothing extraordinary. I think you
need not say anything more about--about us, that is all understood. Go on from there."

"A father and a son, then, are nominally in business together," he answered; "the father does
the work; the son has a generous share of the profits. Matters are going on swimmingly. Suddenly
a claimant turns up who wants a grand slice of the property. He is the only son of the father's
elder brother,--a being who was not known to have existed, that is, who was supposed to have
died when an infant. The father, my father, was named for him, and my grandfather's will gave
the largest share of his fortune to his oldest son, Walter, whom he supposed to be my father,
but who was really Gerald Edmonson's father--if the fellow's proofs turn out valid; they are
having a thorough overhauling. My uncle does not suffer; it is only we. I am sorry," he added,
"that you are liable to be in any way connected with loss, but at the worst it is so remotely
that it will never affect you. As for the other matter, the story,"--he stopped with a movement
of irritation, perhaps of some deeper feeling,--"that must be borne as best it can, nothing
of that falls upon you, certainly. How the matter concerns a young lady at all I can't imagine;
so I fail to see what interest you can have in it, or what right to move in it."

"You fail to see?" she said and gave him a smile full of sweetness. It was not a coaxing smile,
as if she begged him to reconsider his opinions; it indorsed her own while placidly acquiescing
in mutual indifference. "Besides, do you know it was through me that the portrait was found?"
And she gave him an account of the discovery. He did not think it necessary to interrupt her
by saying that he had heard Edmonson give it with great relish; it seemed a good opportunity
to learn whether he had been telling the truth. The story was substantially the same, but the
enjoyment of the narrator was absent. "And, then," she added, finishing, "this is not a bad
investment."

"It may be now; I can't tell. We were under full sail; we have large ventures, and to give
out so much ready money may mean ruin. In a few months, perhaps sooner, you may have the happiness
of bearing a bankrupt name."

Elizabeth's eyes were full of pity at the bitter tones in which she heard suffering; she looked
away and answered:--

"It is merely justice to me to let me prevent that, if I can."

"Good heavens!" he cried; and, struck with the readiness of her answer, he studied her face.
He would have liked to be sure from what motive she was acting. Was it pride, or really pity?
The thought of the last made him furious; the other was at least endurable. "And you might
not prevent it," he added, watching to catch her eyes as she should turn them back to answer.
He was reasonably sure that it was pride.

"Then let me do this for my own sake," she said. "Listen to me calmly for a moment. There is
one thing you ought not to forget. Either I am your wife, which God forbid, and I believe he
has forbidden it, or I am simply Katie's friend. In case of the first,--if I have destroyed
your happiness and Katie's, and my own,--what can money do for me? Life offers me nothing;
there are no possibilities before me so far as joy is concerned; there is nothing left for
me but to do the best I know how; we must pick up the little things that lie along the way
in life, you and I; there will be nothing else for us; I have made you suffer so much, and
you deny me this little thing that can never balance any pain, but is all I can dot? Why are
you so unwise? Why should we make ourselves more miserable than we need be?"

He sprang up. These very words--that he had often said to himself in regard to his own life,
that in effect he had said to her that morning--how harsh they were, how they cut him! He was
tender with his wounded vanity. What man would like to hear that a woman has nothing before
her but misery if she be bound to himself?

"There is one condition," he cried, harshly, "under which I will accept your money,--when you
love me; when it is the gift of love." He laughed bitterly. "I am safe," he said.

"Yes, Mr. Archdale, you are safe," she answered, rising to meet him as he stood before her.
"I can use no such weapons. It is beneath you to do it. To say such a thing to me when you
know that in any event my great blessing is that I don't care a pin's worth for you, that I
am not a sighing woman wasting her affection on you, while you--But I don't suppose you meant
your words as an insult."

"Have I ever been rude to you?" he asked, eagerly. "Such a thing would be an infinite disgrace
to me."

"Yes," she said, answering his assertion.

"'While you,'" he repeated, "you said 'while you'--What were you going to say about me?"

"While you love Katie with all your heart," she answered, "as it is right you should do." He
looked at her, and remembered that for all her courage it might be that he owed her at least
the courtesy of all observances of respect and regard before others. He had committed an unpardonable
error that day of the dinner at his father's, and he felt a confusion, as if the color were
coming to his face now as he thought of it.

"You--mistake," he stammered. "I assure you you do. I think I understand--I"--

She looked up at him. Her face was pale, and there was in it the kind of compassion that one
might imagine a spirit to feel for a wayworn mortal.

"You owe me no explanation," she said. "Let us believe in the victory of the right, and put
this nightmare away from us. Remember you are speaking only to Katie's friend."

He looked at her, and he could not be sure.

"But you must let me speak," he said, "because I see you mistake. I don't want you to think
because--I confess it--her beauty has a great fascination for me that I can forget myself,
that I--it was like admiring a beautiful living picture."

She moved nearer, involuntarily.

"Poor fellow!" she said under her breath, "you have been brave; you are brave, very brave.
I've seen it." Then, after a pause in which she retreated a little and stood considering deeply,
she said, "I will tell you something; it would be too much to be spoken of, only that you don't
understand why I did this thing about the business. Think how I am placed. I may be standing
between my dear friend and the man who was to have been her husband, and separating them forever.
That night when I came home from your father's I realized it more than ever before; it filled
me so that I could not bear the thought of life. I happened to have something by me, and I--almost
took it. I should have slipped away from between you two, I was so bent upon doing it,--only,
the warning saved me from such a sin. It will never be again," she added as she saw his eyes
dilate with questioning horror. "That temptation has gone. I have accepted my lot, for it was
permitted to come, or even that wicked man could not have brought it. But now, think, think
how I must long to do some little thing, not to atone, that's impossible, but to make life
not quite so hard to you, and to her. Now, this has come for you. Take it, I entreat you. Some
day I may be able to help her in some way; I think it will be so."

He looked into her eyes as she raised them to his.

"But you didn't mean to--do all this, if it is done," he said. "There's no need of talking
about atoning, as if you were guilty of anything."

"But, then, I ought to have refused; it was my place. It would have saved everything."

"You wanted to," he said, "and you yielded to oblige Katie."

She looked relieved at his answer. It surprised him; he wondered that he had remembered her
hesitation.

"You will do this thing?" she persisted. "You see it is your duty."

"Do you know the reason you are so anxious to have me do it?" he asked, the momentary softening
of his face gone. "It's out of no love for Katie, or friendliness to me."

"No," she said to his last statement, and added, "Yes, I know; I've seen it."

"What is it?"

"I suppose," she said, humbly, "that it's my pride.

"Yes," he cried, "that's what it is--your pride. Well, I have my pride, too. I'll take your
money, when you love me--when it's the gift of your love, as I said--no sooner; I shall have
to do without it this year, I'm afraid."

Her eyes swept him from head to foot in an indignant glance. Then she turned and walked away
as if disdaining further speech. He bowed in silence as he opened the door for her, looking
at her with a mocking smile, and even as he did so taking in every line of her graceful figure,
the pose of her head, and the flush upon her face. In answer to the taunt she did speak one
sentence under her breath, but he caught it:--

"You are not the only one," she said.

When he had closed the door after her he walked slowly the length of the room, and, standing
by the window, in another moment saw her pass by on her way to the shore where she had learned
that the party had gone. If they were already sailing it was no matter; she could wait for
them there, or come back; but they might not have started, and to put any part of sea and land
between herself and Archdale would be a joy to her.

Archdale watched her until she disappeared.

