"Don't be so flippant."

"And don't you be so cryptic. What's Mrs. Rowley's cheerfulness done to you?"

"I'll tell you how it happened," she said. "We met; 'twas at a tea, and first of all we talked
about committees."

"Committees!" I said. "How glorious! Are there many?"

"Yes," she said. "There's the old Relief Committee, and the Belgian Committee, and the Soldiers'
Comforts' Committee, and the Hospital Visitors' Committee, and the Children's Meals' Committee,
and the Entertainments' Committee and the----"

"Enough," I said. "I will take the rest for granted. But isn't there a danger that with all
these committees----?"

"I know," she said; "you're going to say something about overlapping."

"Your insight," I said, "is wonderful. How did you know?"

"I've noticed," she said, "that when men form committees they always declare that there sha'n't
be any overlapping, and then, according to their own account, they get to work and all overlap
like mad. Now we women don't worry about overlapping. Most of us don't know what it means--I
don't myself--but we appoint presidents and treasurers and secretaries, and then we go ahead
and do things. If we were only left to ourselves we should never call a meeting of any committee
after we'd once started it. It's the men who insist on committees meeting."

"Yes, and on keeping them from breaking their rules."

"What's the use of having committees if you can't break their silly old rules?"

"Amiable anarchist," I said, "let us abandon committees and return to Mrs. Rowley."

"Well," she said, "we soon got on to the War."

"You might easily do that," I said. "The subject has its importance. What does Mrs. Rowley
think of it?"

"Mrs. Rowley thinks it's all perfectly splendid. She hasn't the least doubt about anything.
She knows the uncle of a man whose cousin is in the War Office and often sees Lord KITCHENER
in the corridors, and he's quite certain----"

"Who? Lord KITCHENER?"

"No, the uncle of the man whose cousin--he's quite certain the War will be over in our favour
before next June, because there'll be a revolution in Potsdam and thousands of Germans are
being killed in bread-riots every day, and lots of stuff of that sort."

"I understand," I said. "You began to react against it."

"Something of that kind. She was so terribly serene and so dreadfully over-confident that I
got contradictious and had to argue with her--simply couldn't restrain myself--and then she
said she was sorry I was such a pessimist, and I said I wasn't, and here I am."

"Yes," I said, "you are, and in a state of Cimmerian gloom, naturally enough. But you've come
to the right place--no, by Jove, now that I think of it you've come to the wrong place, the
very wrongest place in the world."

"How's that?"

"Because I met old Captain Burstall out walking, and he was miserable about everything. According
to him we haven't got a dog's chance anywhere. The Government's rotten, the Army's rotten,
the Navy's worse and the British Empire's going to be smashed up before Easter."

"Captain Burstall's the man for my money. If I'd only met him I should have been as cheerful
as a lark."

"And that," I said, "is exactly what I am, entirely owing to a natural spirit of contradiction.
I just pulled myself together and countered him on every point."

"I daresay you did it very well," she said; "but if you're as cock-a-hoop as you make out I
don't see how I'm ever to get rid of my depression. I shall be starting to contradict you next."

"Which," I said, "will be an entirely novel experience for both of us. But I'll tell you a
better way; let's keep silent for ten minutes and simmer back to our usual condition of reasonable
hopefulness."

"I can't promise silence," she said, "but I'll back myself against the world as a simmerer."

R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE to the Slackers:--

    "Dishonour not your mothers; now attest." Henry V., Act III.,
    Scene I.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER AIR SCANDAL.

If ever I write a Hymn of Hate, or, at any rate, of resentment, it will not be about the Germans,
but about a certain type of Englishman whom I encounter far too often and shall never understand.
The Germans are now beyond any hymning, however fervent; they are, it is reassuring to think,
a class by themselves. But my man should be hymned, not because it will do him any good, but
because it relieves my feelings.

It is really rather a curious case, for he might be quite a nice fellow and, I have little
doubt, often is; but he boasts and flaunts an inhuman insensibility that excites one's worst
passions.

What would you say was the quality or characteristic most to be desired in every member of
our social common-wealth? Obviously there is only one reply to this question: that he should
be decently susceptible to draughts. If society is to go on, either we must all be so pachydermatous
as to be able to disregard draughts, or we must feel them and act accordingly. There should
not be here and there a strange Ishmaelite creature whose delight it is to be played upon by
boreal blasts. But there is. I meet him in the train, and the other day I hymned him.

O thou (my hymn of dislike, of annoyance, of remonstrance began):--

  O thou, the foe of comfort, heat,
  O thou who hast the corner seat,
  Facing the engine, as we say
  (Although it is so far away,
    And in between
    So many coaches intervene,
  The phrase partakes of foolishness);--
  O thou who sittest there no less,
  Keeping the window down
  Though all the carriage frown,
    Why dost thou so rejoice in air?
  Not air that nourishes and braces,
  Such as one finds in watering-places,
    But air to chill a polar bear--
  Malignant air at sixty miles an hour
    That rakes the carriage fore and aft,
  Wherein we cower;
    Not air at all, but sheer revengeful draught!
  How canst thou like it? Say! How canst thou do it?

  Thou even read'st a paper through it!

  Know'st thou no pain?
    Sciatica or rheumatism
    Leading to balm or sinapism?
  Doth influenza pass thee by?
  Hast never cold or bloodshot eye
  Like ordinary Christian folk
    Who sit in draughts against their will
    And pray they'll not be ill?
  Even in tunnels (this is past a joke)
  Thou car'st no rap
  Nor, as a decent man would, pull'st the strap,
  But lett'st the carriage fill with smoke
  Till all but thou must choke.

  Why art thou anti-social thus,
  Why dost thou differ so from us?
  Thou pig! thou hippopotamus!

I don't pretend to be satisfied with these lines. They are not strong, not complete. Mr. JOYNSON-HICKS
would have done it more fittingly. Still they might do a little good somewhere, and every little
helps.

       *       *       *       *       *

OVERTIME.

    "The evidence was that defendants employed six young persons for
    more than seven days a week."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The organist played as opening voluntaries the 'Bridal March'
    from 'Lohengrin,' Barnaby's 'Bridal March' from 'Lohengrin,' and
    Barnaby's 'Bridal March.'"

    Provincial Paper.

It was evidently BARNABY's. Still, we think WAGNER might have been mentioned as his collaborator.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In the current number of the Commonwealth Canon Scott Holland
    in his own inimical manner endorses all that Mr. Carey has been
    writing in our columns recently."

    Clerical Paper.

The Canon appears to be one of those jolly people who slap you on the back as if they would
knock you down.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE FRONT.

Of recent days we have almost stopped pretending to be soldiers and owned up to being civilian
labourers lodged in the War zone. This is felt so acutely that several leading privates have
quite discarded that absolute attribute of the infantryman, the rifle. They return from working
parties completely unarmed, discover the fact with a mild and but half-regretful astonishment
and report the circumstance to section-commanders as if they had lost one round of small arms
ammunition or the last cube from an iron ration.

The hobby of the civilian labourer is obstacle-racing. To do this you require a dark night,
the assistance of some Royal Engineers, an appointment just behind the front line with some
supervisor of labour whom you don't know and don't specially want to, and a four-mile stretch
across country to the rendezvous.

You start out at nightfall and do good time over the first hundred yards. The field consists
of forty to eighty labourers, and one of the idle rich (formerly styled officers). At the hundred
yards' mark the Royal Engineers begin to come in. Obstacle 1 is a model trench, built for instructional
purposes and now being turned to obstructional account. There's one place where you can get
on to the parades without swimming, and if we started by daylight we might strike it. We do
not start by daylight.

Beyond the trench is a wire entanglement, also a fine specimen of early 1915 R.E. work. We
may note in passing the trip wire eight yards beyond. We're getting pretty good with it now,
but in our early days the R.E. used to get a lot of marks for it.

You go on towards a couple of moated hedges, whimsically barbed in odd spots, and emerge into
a park or open space leading into an unhealthy-looking road. It seems all plain sailing to
the road--unless you know the R.E., in which case you will not be surprised to find your neck
nearly bisected by a horizontal wire designed to encourage telephonic communication.

Eventually you all reach an area known for some obscure reason--if for any at all--as "The
Brigade." Here the R.E. have a new game waiting for you. We call it "Hunt the Shovels." You
have been instructed to draw shovels from the Brigade. The term covers a space of some thousand
square metres intersected with hedges, bridges, rivers, dugouts, horseponds (natural and adventitious),
any square metre of which may contain your shovels.

If you are not behind time so far this is where you drop a quarter of an hour. Of course you
may just get fed up and go home. But in that case you aren't allowed to play again, and as
a matter of fact the game is rather de rigueur out here. So you hide your party behind a sign-post,
which tells you--if it were not too dark to read--INFANTRY MUST NOT HALT HERE, and then a lance-corporal
with a good nose for shovels looks through the more likely hiding-places. The search is rendered
pleasant as well as interesting by the fact that all the Brigade has been trodden into a morass
by months of shovel-hunting.

Beyond the Brigade the obstacles really begin. But if you use a revolver freely for wire-cutting
and rope your party together--this prevents anyone sitting down by the wayside to take his
boots off "because they draws that bad"--you will reach the rendezvous assigned to you within
an hour of the time assigned to you. At this point you will learn that no guide has been seen
or heard of there, and, subsequently, that the guide was warned for another square that certainly
looks very similar on the map. But again, if you know guides, you will guess that he went straight
to the spot where the job was to be done without bothering about anything so intricate or superfluous
as a rendezvous. Anyhow you will probably end by getting some sort of casual labour somewhere,
some time or other, and no questions asked so long as you don't inadvertently dig through from
a main drain into a C.O.'s dugout.

