MAXIMS AND OPINIONS OF FIELD-MARSHAL HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, SELECTED FROM HIS WRITINGS
AND SPEECHES DURING A PUBLIC LIFE OF MORE THAN HALF A CENTURY.

With a Biographical Memoir,

BY

GEORGE HENRY FRANCIS, ESQ.

"Cujus gloriae neque profuit quisquam laudando, nec vituperando quisquam nocuit."

LONDON:

HENRY COLBURN, PUBLISHER.

GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

1845.

ADVERTISEMENT

       *       *       *       *       *

So many works have already appeared of which the Duke of Wellington has been the subject, that
an explanation is due to the public on the occasion of adding one more to the number.

That explanation consists in the fact, that those works have been almost exclusively occupied
with the military exploits of the Duke, which rendered him so illustrious during the first
twenty years of his public life; while his political career, which may be said to have constituted
a second life, distinct and different from the other, has been comparatively neglected.

To meet the want thus left unsatisfied, the Editor of the following pages has endeavoured to
supply materials, by which a just estimate may be formed of the Duke of Wellington's claims
as a minister and as a statesman.

The volume will be found to contain the Duke's deliberate opinions as a member of the House
of Peers, and, during many years, as a minister, upon the great questions which have agitated
the public mind since the commencement of the present century.

If there are those who hold the Duke of Wellington in light estimation as a politician, they
will not continue to entertain that opinion, the Editor believes, after having dispassionately
read the extracts of which this work is composed.

Interspersed with the Duke's more elaborate OPINIONS, will be found his MAXIMS on public policy,
which, though few and unpretending, may be said to have sunk into the national mind.

The Editor has added a few remarkable sentences and passages from the dispatches of the Duke;
with a cursory memoir of his life, which becomes more elaborate from the commencement of his
political career; and has also attempted to portray some of his characteristics, as a soldier
and as a civilian.

LONDON, February, 1845.

MEMOIR

OF

HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, is the fourth son of Garret, second Earl of Mornington,
by Anne, the eldest daughter of Arthur Hill, Viscount Dungannon. He was borne at Dangan Castle,
in the county of Meath, Ireland, on the 1st of May, 1769.

As in the case of many of the chief nobility and landholders in Ireland, the ancestors of the
Duke were scions of an English house--the Colleys (afterwards Cowley), two of whom, named Walter
and Robert Colley, proceeded to Ireland in the reign of Henry VIII., and located themselves
in the County of Kilkenny. The two brothers were lawyers by profession, and in the year 1531,
were invested with the office of Clerk of the Crown in Chancery, which they were to hold jointly
during their lives. Six years afterwards, we find the elder brother Master of the Rolls in
Ireland, and the other Solicitor-General. In 1549, Walter was made Surveyor-General of Ireland.
It was from this Walter that the immediate ancestors of the Duke of Wellington were, by the
mother's side, descended.

His eldest son, Henry, acquired some distinction as a soldier in the reign of Elizabeth. He
was also a member of the Irish Parliament for the borough of Thomastown. He was, moreover,
a Privy Councillor, and was knighted.

Sir Henry Sydney, who was, perhaps, the wisest and most able of all the Lords Deputy whom Elizabeth
sent over to Ireland, appears to have entertained a very high opinion of Sir Henry Colley's
abilities; for, in recommending him to his successor in the Government, he describes him as
"valiant, fortunate, and a good servant;" and speaks of him as his "sound and fast friend."
But he more especially praises the "order," in which he kept his county.

Thus early did a member of this family earn praise for good service to the State; and if we
compare the measure of that praise with what we know of the temper of the times, we might almost
suppose that some portion of the spirit of the "sound and fast friend," the "valiant, fortunate,
and good servant," had been inherited by his illustrious descendant.

The immediate descendants of Sir Henry Colley were more or less distinguished. His great-great
grand-daughter, Elizabeth, married into the family of the Westleys (afterwards Wellesleys)
of Dangan, in the county of Meath. This family also was of English extraction, having originally
come from Sussex. Richard Colley, the nephew of the Elizabeth abovementioned, was adopted by
Garret Wellesley, whose name and estates he took in the year 1728, by patent from the Herald's
office. He was auditor and registrar of the Royal Hospital of Kilmainham, and a Chamberlain
of the Court of Exchequer. He sat in parliament several years for Carysford, and was, in 1747
raised to the peerage by George II., being created Baron Mornington. His son, Garret, was,
in 1760, created Viscount Wellesley and Earl of Mornington. He married, on the 6th February,
1759, Anne, eldest daughter of the Right Honourable Arthur Hill, Viscount Dungannon, by whom
he had issue, Richard the late Marquis Wellesley, Arthur Gerald, who died in infancy, William
Wellesley Pole, Baron Maryborough, Arthur Duke of Wellington, Gerald Valerian, D.D., Sir Henry,
G.C.B., Francis Seymour, Anne, and Mary Elizabeth.

The Earl of Mornington, who was chiefly remarkable for his strong passion for music, in which
science he acquired no slight celebrity as a composer, died in 1781, leaving his property very
much encumbered. Its management was entrusted to Lady Mornington, who appears, by universal
assent, to have been one of those remarkable women to whose care the world is indebted, so
much more than it conceives or will admit, for its great men. Although it may have been upon
severer models, and by the lessons of more pretending teachers, that the Marquis Wellesley
was formed into the vigorous ruler, and the wise, far-seeing statesman; or if his scarcely
more illustrious brother must, from other sources, have imbibed that stern unswerving spirit
which, in his after career, insured truth to his views and certainty to his enterprises, yet
one can scarcely allow a doubt that it is to the direction given by their admirable mother
to the minds of these two great men, while still in the pliant season of youth, that we owe
that high appreciation of truth and honour, and that sense of the identity of virtue and duty,
which, while their wisdom and prowess were spreading our military fame, and extending the sphere
of our civilising influence, enabled them also, by the exaltation of our national character,
to secure for their country the respect of all the world.

One of the first fruits of early lessons or of later reflection upon the mind of the young
Earl of Mornington was, that he took upon himself the payment of his father's debts, an act
entirely voluntary on his part.

Of Lord Mornington, afterwards the celebrated Marquis Wellesley, it is unnecessary to say more
in this place than that he was in the year 1797 appointed to the Governor-Generalship of India,
in which high office he was enabled to develop, without the suspicion of undue preference,
the peculiar talents of his younger brother--talents which his discriminating mind would probably
have discovered even without the assistance of such close proximity.

To return to the immediate subject of these Memoirs:--His education commenced at Eton, from
whence he went to the military academy at Angers, in the department of the Maine and Loire,
there being at that period no institution of the kind in this country.

On his return from the Continent, young Wellesley received (on the 7th of March, 1787), an
ensigncy in the 41st regiment, he being then in his eighteenth year. He became lieutenant on
the 25th of December in the same year; captain, on the 30th of June, 1791; major, on the 30th
of April, 1798; and lieut.-colonel on the 30th of September following. These promotions were
chiefly by purchase, and the lieut.-colonelcy (of the 33rd) was bought for him by his brother.
He was returned to the Irish parliament at the general election of 1790, for Trim, a borough
belonging to his brother.

Brilliant as was the reputation which, within a very few years, he acquired as a soldier and
a politician in the East, it will not excite surprise to hear that his parliamentary displays
did not in his early life excite much attention. A friend of the writer of this memoir, a gentleman
who was in the habit of being present, almost daily, in the Irish House of Commons, and who
took critical notice of the remarkable men of his time, states that the Duke never made any
striking impression as a speaker; indeed; there was nothing whatever to distinguish him from
the herd of young parliamentary nominees, except a certain simple, straightforward, firm, though
unassuming statement of his opinions; and even this took place but seldom. The recollection
of this gentleman confirms the account of Sir Jonah Barrington, that--"His address was unpolished;
he spoke occasionally, and never with success; and evinced no promise of that unparalleled
celebrity which he reached afterwards."

The following anecdote is not inconsistent with that reputation for inflexible honour which,
in successive eras of his life, procured for the Duke of Wellington the confidence of the Indian
government, of the British army, and ultimately of the whole English nation. It is taken from
the excellent detailed account of the Duke's military career, recently published by Mr. Maxwell:--

"The appointment of Captain Wellesley to the staff of the Earl of Westmorland, had placed him
in the household of the viceroy, and as aid-de-camp required his constant attendance at the
castle. The Irish court at that period was celebrated alike for its hospitality, its magnificence,
and its dissipation. The princely display of the lords lieutenant of those days entailed a
heavy expenditure upon the numerous attachés of the court, and too frequently plunged young
men of high family and limited fortunes into very distressing embarrassments. Captain Wellesley's
patrimony was small, his staff appointment more fashionable than lucrative, and it is not surprising
that soon after he had come of age he found himself involved in pecuniary difficulties. At
the time he lodged in the house of an opulent bootmaker, who resided on Lower Ormand Quay.
The worthy tradesman discovered, accidently, that his young inmate was suffering annoyance
from his inability to discharge a pressing demand. He waited on Lieutenant Wellesley, told
him that he was apprised of his embarrassments, mentioned that he had money unemployed, and
offered a loan, which was accepted. The obligation was soon afterwards duly repaid; and the
young aid-de-camp was enabled in a few years to present his humble friend to an honourable
and lucrative situation. Nor did death cancel the obligation; the Duke's patronage, after his
parent's death, was extended to the son of his early friend, for whom he obtained a valuable
appointment."

