When the earth is bursting with new verdure, (23) fields and farm-lands rather than mountains
are their habitat. (24) When tracked by the huntsman their habit is everywhere to await approach,
except only in case of some excessive scare during the night, in which case they will be on
the move.

 (23) "When the ground teems with vegetation."

 (24) Or, "they frequent cultivated lands," etc.

The fecundity of the hare is extraordinary. The female, having produced one litter, is on the
point of producing a second when she is already impregnated for a third. (25)

 (25) Re hyper-foetation cf. Pollux, v. 73, ap. Schneid.; Herod. iii.
    108; Aristot. "H. A." iv. 5; Erastosthenes, "Catasterism," 34;
    Aelian, "V. H." ii. 12; Plin. "N. H." vii. 55.

The scent of the leveret lies stronger (26) than that of the grown animal. While the limbs
are still soft and supple they trail full length on the ground. Every true sportsman, however,
will leave these quite young creatures to roam freely. (27) "They are for the goddess." Full-grown
yearlings will run their first chase very swiftly, (28) but they cannot keep up the pace; in
spite of agility they lack strength.

 (26) Cf. Pollux, v. 74.

 (27) {aphiasi}, cf. Arrian, xxii. 1, "let them go free"; Aesch. "P.
    V." 666; Plat. "Prot." 320 A.

 (28) Or, "will make the running over the first ring."

To find the trail you must work the dogs downwards through the cultivated lands, beginning
at the top. Any hares that do not come into the tilled districts must be sought in the meadows
and the glades; near rivulets, among the stones, or in woody ground. If the quarry makes off,
(29) there should be no shouting, that the hounds may not grow too eager and fail to discover
the line. When found by the hounds, and the chase has begun, the hare will at times cross streams,
bend and double and creep for shelter into clefts and crannied lurking-places; (30) since they
have not only the hounds to dread, but eagles also; and, so long as they are yearlings, are
apt to be carried off in the clutches of these birds, in the act of crossing some slope or
bare hillside. When they are bigger they have the hounds after them to hunt them down and make
away with them. The fleetest-footed would appear to be those of the low marsh lands. The vagabond
kind (31) addicted to every sort of ground are difficult to hunt, for they know the short cuts,
running chiefly up steeps or across flats, over inequalities unequally, and downhill scarcely
at all.

 (29) Or, "shifts her ground."

 (30) Or, "in their terror not of dogs only, but of eagles, since up to
    a year old they are liable to be seized by these birds of prey
    while crossing some bottom or bare ground, while if bigger..."

 (31) {oi... planetai}, see Ael. op. cit. xiii. 14.

Whilst being hunted they are most visible in crossing ground that has been turned up by the
plough, if, that is, they have any trace of red about them, or through stubble, owing to reflection.
So, too, they are visible enough on beaten paths or roads, presuming these are fairly level,
since the bright hue of their coats lights up by contrast. On the other hand, they are not
noticeable when they seek the cover of rocks, hills, screes, or scrub, owing to similarity
of colour. Getting a fair start of the hounds, they will stop short, sit up and rise themselves
up on their haunches, (32) and listen for any bark or other clamour of the hounds hard by;
and when the sound reaches them, off and away they go. At times, too, without hearing, merely
fancying or persuading themselves that they hear the hounds, they will fall to skipping backwards
and forwards along the same trail, (33) interchanging leaps, and interlacing lines of scent,
(34) and so make off and away.

 (32) Cf. the German "Mannerchen machen," "play the mannikin." Shaks.
    "V. and A." 697 foll.

 (33) Passage imitated by Arrian, xvi. 1.

 (34) Lit. "imprinting track upon track," but it is better perhaps to
    avoid the language of woodcraft at this point.

These animals will give the longest run when found upon the open, there being nothing there
to screen the view; the shortest run when started out of thickets, where the very darkness
is an obstacle.

There are two distinct kinds of hare--the big kind, which is somewhat dark in colour (35) with
a large white patch on the forehead; and the smaller kind, which is yellow-brown with only
a little white. The tail of the former kind is variegated in a circle; of the other, white
at the side. (36) The eyes of the large kind are slightly inclined to gray; (37) of the smaller,
bluish. The black about the tips of the ears is largely spread in the one, but slightly in
the other species. Of these two species, the smaller is to be met with in most of the islands,
desert and inhabited alike. As regards numbers they are more abundant in the islands than on
the mainland; the fact being that in most of these there are no foxes to attack and carry off
either the grown animal or its young; nor yet eagles, whose habitat is on lofty mountains rather
than the lower type of hills which characterise the islands. (38) Again, sportsmen seldom visit
the desert islands, and as to those which are inhabited, the population is but thinly scattered
and the folk themselves not addicted to the chase; while in the case of the sacred islands,
(39) the importation of dogs is not allowed. If, then, we consider what a small proportion
of hares existent at the moment will be hunted down and again the steady increase of the stock
through reproduction, the enormous numbers will not be surprising. (40)

 (35) {epiperknoi}. Cf. Pollux, v. 67 foll., "mottled with black."
    Blane.

 (36) Reading {paraseiron}, perhaps "mottled"; vulg. {paraseron}. Al.
    {parasuron}, "ecourtee," Gail.

 (37) {upokharopoi}, "subfulvi," Sturz, i.e. "inclined to tawny"; al.
    "fairly lustrous." Cf. {ommata moi glaukas kharopotera pollon
    'Athanas}, Theocr. xx. 25; but see Aristot. "H. A." i. 10; "Gen.
    An." v. 1. 20.

 (38) Lit. "and those on the islands are for the most part of low
    altitude."

 (39) e.g. Delos. See Strab. x. 456; Plut. "Mor." 290 B; and so Lagia,
    Plin. iv. 12.

 (40) Lit. "As the inhabitants hunt down but a few of them, these
    constantly being added to by reproduction, there must needs be a
    large number of them."

The hare has not a keen sight for many reasons. To begin with, its eyes are set too prominently
on the skull, and the eyelids are clipped and blear, (41) and afford no protection to the pupils.
(42) Naturally the sight is indistinct and purblind. (43) Along with which, although asleep,
for the most part it does not enjoy visual repose. (44) Again, its very fleetness of foot contributes
largely towards dim-sightedness. It can only take a rapid glance at things in passing, and
then off before perceiving what the particular object is. (45)

 (41) Or, "defective."

 (42) Al. "against the sun's rays."

 (43) Or, "dull and mal-concentrated." See Pollux, v. 69.

 (44) i.e. "its eyes are not rested, because it sleeps with them open."

 (45) i.e. "it goes so quick, that before it can notice what the
    particular object is, it must avert its gaze to the next, and then
    the next, and so on."

The alarm, too, of those hounds for ever at its heels pursuing combines with everything (46)
to rob the creature of all prescience; so that for this reason alone it will run its head into
a hundred dangers unawares, and fall into the toils. If it held on its course uphill, (47)
it would seldom meet with such a fate; but now, through its propensity to circle round and
its attachment to the place where it was born and bred, it courts destruction. Owing to its
speed it is not often overtaken by the hounds by fair hunting. (48) When caught, it is the
victim of a misfortune alien to its physical nature.

 (46) {meta touton}, sc. "with these other causes"; al. "with the
    dogs"; i.e. "like a second nightmare pack."

 (47) Reading {orthion}, or if {orthon}, transl. "straight on."

 (48) {kata podas}, i.e. "by running down"; cf. "Mem." II. vi. 9;
    "Cyrop." I. vi. 40, re two kinds of hound: the one for scent, the
    other for speed.

The fact is, there is no other animal of equal size which is at all its match in speed. Witness
the conformation of its body: the light, small drooping head (narrow in front); (49) the (thin
cylindrical) (50) neck, not stiff and of a moderate length; straight shoulder-blades, loosely
slung above; the fore-legs attached to them, light and set close together; (51) the undistended
chest; (52) the light symmetrical sides; the supple, well-rounded loins; the fleshy buttocks;
the somewhat sunken flanks; (53) the hips, well rounded, plump at every part, but with a proper
interval above; the long and solid thighs, on the outside tense and not too flabby on the inside;
the long, stout lower legs or shanks; the fore-feet, exceedingly pliant, thin, and straight;
the hind-feet firm and broad; front and hind alike totally regardless of rough ground; the
hind-legs far longer than the fore, inclined outwards somewhat; the fur (54) short and light.

 (49) Reading {katophere  (stenen ek tou emprosthen)}. See Lenz ad loc.
    pp. 23, 24. Pollux, v. 69.

 (50) Reading { (lepton, periphere)}.

 (51) {sugkola}, al. "compactly knit."

 (52) Lit. {ou barutonon}, "not deep sounding" = {ou sarkodes}, Pollux,
    ib.

 (53) Reading {lagonas ugras lagaras ikanos}.

 (54) {trikhona}, "the coat."

I say an animal so happily constructed must needs be strong and pliant; the perfection of lightness
and agility. If proof of this lightness and agility be needed, here is a fact in illustration.
When proceeding quietly, its method of progression is by leaps; no one ever saw or is likely
to see a hare walking. What it does is to place the hind-feet in front of the fore-feet and
outside them, and so to run, if running one can call it. The action prints itself plainly on
snow. The tail is not conducive to swiftness of pace, being ill adapted by its stumpiness to
act as a rudder to direct the body. The animal has to do this by means of one or other ear;
(55) as may be seen, when she is on the point of being caught by the hounds. (56) At that instant
you may see her drop and shoot out aslant one of her ears towards the point of attack, and
then, apparently throwing her full weight on that pivot, turn sharp round and in a moment leave
her assailants far behind.

 (55) So Ael. "N. A." xiii. 14.

 (56) Pollux, v. 71. For punctuation, see Lenz ad loc. p. 25.

So winsome a creature is it, that to note the whole of the proceedings from the start--the
quest by scent, the find, the pack in pursuit full cry, the final capture--a man might well
forget all other loves. (57)

 (57) See Arrian, xvi. 6, his criticism. Schneid. cf. Plut. "Mor." 1096
    C. Hermog. iii. 319, 11, ed. Walz.

Here it should be added that the sportsman, who finds himself on cultivated lands, should rigidly
keep his hands off the fruits of the season, and leave springs and streams alone. To meddle
with them is ugly and base, not to speak of the bad example of lawlessness set to the beholder.
During the close season (58) all hunting gear should be taken down and put away.

 (58) Al. "wahrend der Jagdferien," Lenz; "on Sundays," as we might
    say. See some remarks on S. 34 in "Hellenica Essays," "Xenophon,"
    p. 349.

VI

The equipment of the dogs consists of collar straps, leashes, and surcingles, (1) and the collar
should be broad and soft so as not to rub the dog's coat; the leash should have a noose for
the hand, (2) and nothing else. The plan of making collar and leash all in one is a clumsy
contrivance for keeping a hound in check. (3) The surcingle should be broad in the thongs so
as not to gall the hound's flanks, and with spurs stitched on to the leather, to preserve the
purity of the breed. (4)

 (1) {stelmoniai}, al. {telamonias}, broad belts or girths, corselets.
    Pollux, v. 55.

 (2) Pollux, v. 56.

 (3) Lit. "since those who make the collar out of the leash do not keep
    hold (al. take care) of their hounds well."

 (4) See "A Day with Xenophon's Harriers," "Macmillan's Mag." Jan.
    1895, p. 183.

As to taking the hounds out to hunt, no hound ought to be taken out which refuses its food,
a conclusive proof that the animal is ailing. Nor again, when a violent wind is blowing, for
three good reasons: the scent will not lie, the hounds cannot smell, (5) neither the nets nor
hayes will stand. In the absence, however, of any of these hindrances, take them out every
other day. (6) Do not let your hounds get into the habit of hunting foxes. Nothing is so ruinous;
and just at the moment when you want them, they will not be forthcoming. On the other hand,
vary the hunting-ground in taking them out; which will give the pack a wider experience in
hunting and their master a better knowledge of the country. The start should be early in the
morning, unless the scent is to fail the hounds entirely. (7) The dilatory sportsman robs the
pack of finding and himself of profit. (8) Subtle and delicate by nature, scent will not last
all day.

 (5) "You cannot trust the hound's nose."

 (6) "Every third day," {dia trites tes emeras}.

 (7) Lit. "in order that they may not be deprived of following up the
    scent."

 (8) Or, "a late start means the hounds will be robbed of a find and
    the huntsman of his reward."

The net-keeper should wear a light costume. His business is to fix the nets about the runs,
(9) paths, bends, and hollows, and darksome spots, brooks, dry torrents, or perennial mountain
streams. These are the places to which the hare chiefly betakes itself for refuge; though there
are of course endless others. These, and the side passages into, and exits from them, whether
well marked or ill defined, are to be stopped just as day breaks; not too early, so that, in
case the line of nets be in the neighbourhood of covert to be searched for game, (10) the animal
may not be scared at hearing the thud close by. (11) If, on the contrary, there should be a
wide gap between the two points, there is less to hinder making the net lines clear and clean
quite early, so that nothing may cling to them. The keeper must fix the forked props slantwise,
so as to stand the strain when subjected to tension. He must attach the nooses equally on the
points; and see that the props are regularly fixed, raising the pouch towards the middle; (12)
and into the slip-rope he must insert a large, long stone, to prevent the net from stretching
in the opposite direction, when it has got the hare inside. He will fix the rows of poles with
stretches of net sufficiently high to prevent the creature leaping over. (13) In hunting, "no
procrastination" should be the motto, since it is sportsmanlike at once and a proof of energy
by all means to effect a capture quickly. He will stretch the larger (haye) nets upon level
spaces; and proceed to plant the road nets upon roads and at converging points of tracks and
footpaths; (14) he must attach the border-ropes to the ground, draw together the elbows or
side ends of the nets, fix the forked props between the upper meshes, (15) adjust the skirting
ropes upon the tops, and close up gaps.

 (9) See Pollux, v. 35.

 (10) Al. "of the game to be hunted up."

 (11) {omou}, "e propinquo." Schn. cf. "Cyrop." III. i. 2; VI. iii. 7.

 (12) Or, "giving the funnel or belly a lift in the middle."
    {kekruphalon}, Pollux, v. 31.

 (13) This sentence according to Lenz is out of its place, referring
    solely to the haye nets; the order of the words should be {ta de
    diktua teineto en apedois stoikhizeto de, k.t.l.} If so, transl.
    "He should stretch the hayes on level ground and fix, etc.; The
    road nets should be planted... etc."

 (14) Al. "at convenient points or where paths converge." See Schneid.
    s.v. {sumpheronta}.

 (15) {sardonion}, Pollux, v. 31. Al. "fixing the stakes between the
    edges."

Then he will play sentinel and go his rounds; if a prop or funnel wants supporting, he will
set it up; and when the hare comes with the hounds behind her he will urge her forwards to
the toils, with shout and halloa thundering at her heels. When she is fairly entangled, he
is to calm the fury of the hounds, without touching them, by soothing, encouraging tones. He
is also to signal to the huntsman with a shout, that the quarry is taken, or has escaped this
side or that, or that he has not seen it, or where he last caught sight of it. (16)

 (16) Or, "'caught,' 'escaped,' (this side or that), 'not seen,'
    'marked.'"

The sportsman himself should sally forth in a loose, light hunting dress, (17) and footgear
(18) to match; he should carry a stout stick in his hand, the net-keeper following. They should
proceed to the hunting-field in silence, to prevent the hare, if by chance there should be
one close by, from making off at the sound of voices. When they have reached the covert, he
will tie the hounds to trees, each separately, so that they can be easily slipped from the
leash, and proceed to fix the nets, funnel and hayes, as above described. When that is done,
and while the net-keeper mounts guard, the master himself will take the hounds and sally forth
to rouse the game. (19) Then with prayer and promise to Apollo and to Artemis, our Lady of
the Chase, (20) to share with them the produce of spoil, he lets slip a single hound, the cunningest
at scenting of the pack. (If it be winter, the hour will be sunrise, or if summer, before day-dawn,
and in the other seasons at some hour midway.) As soon as the hound has unravelled the true
line (21) he will let slip another; and then, if these carry on the line, at rapid intervals
he will slip the others one by one; and himself follow, without too great hurry, (22) addressing
each of the dogs by name every now and then, but not too frequently, for fear of over-exciting
them before the proper moment.

 (17) {emelemenen} = neglige, plain, unpretentious.

 (18) Pollux, v. 18.

 (19) Al. "intent on the working of the pack."

 (20) "To thee thy share of this chase, Lord Apollo; and thine to thee,
    O Huntress Queen!"

 (21) Or, "carries a line straight away from the many that interlace."

 (22) Or, "without forcing the pace."

Meanwhile the hounds are busily at work; onwards they press with eager spirit, disentangling
the line, double or treble, as the case may be. (23) To and fro they weave a curious web, (24)
now across, now parallel with the line, (25) whose threads are interlaced, here overlapped,
and here revolving in a circle; now straight, now crooked; here close, there rare; at one time
clear enough, at another dimly owned. Past one another the hounds jostle--tails waving fast,
ears dropt, and eyes flashing.

 (23) "Discovering two or three scents, as the case may be";
    "unravelling her line, be it single or double."

 (24) {prophoreisthai} = {diazesthai}, Pollux, vii. 52. Schneid. cf.
    Aristoph. "Birds," 4, {apoloumeth' allos ten odon prophoroumeno}.

Still up and down, old sinner, must we pace; 'Twill kill us both, this vain, long, wearing
race (Kennedy).

 (25) See Arrian, xx. 2.

